sentence_ID,word,lemma,POS_tag,fine_POS_tag,topic_synset,synset,topic,original_synset,relation,definition,example,lemmas,context
3,dance,dance,VERB,VB,dance.v.01,dance.v.01,music,dance.v.01,original,move in a graceful and rhythmical way,The young girl danced into the room,['dance'],The sun has finally come out and my Rotella collages have begun to dance like gorgeous jungle flowers .
10,God,God,PROPN,NNP,deity.n.01,deity.n.01,religion,deity.n.01,original,any supernatural being worshipped as controlling some part of the world or some aspect of life or who is the personification of a force,,"['deity', 'divinity', 'god', 'immortal']","Reading my newspapers , relishing ( gourmand of the printed word ) the immaculate virginity of the crisp almost white paper and the urgent seduction of adventure in the smoky anthracite smell of the ink , analyzing even the most minute ( but human ) event , linking it to the blaring rhetorical headlines of several days ; before , recalling some insignificant item reprinted from a provincial newspaper months and months before — no , I feel not like God , but rather like some benevolently mad theatrical impresario who eagerly , paternally , leafs through the press clippings of his countless actors and actresses , dispersed monads , who like nomads are wandering over the theatrical caravan routes of the world ."
10,clippings,clipping,NOUN,NNS,clipping.n.01,clipping.n.01,music,music.n.01,hyponyms,an excerpt cut from a newspaper or magazine,he searched through piles of letters and clippings,"['clipping', 'newspaper_clipping', 'press_clipping', 'cutting', 'press_cutting']","Reading my newspapers , relishing ( gourmand of the printed word ) the immaculate virginity of the crisp almost white paper and the urgent seduction of adventure in the smoky anthracite smell of the ink , analyzing even the most minute ( but human ) event , linking it to the blaring rhetorical headlines of several days ; before , recalling some insignificant item reprinted from a provincial newspaper months and months before — no , I feel not like God , but rather like some benevolently mad theatrical impresario who eagerly , paternally , leafs through the press clippings of his countless actors and actresses , dispersed monads , who like nomads are wandering over the theatrical caravan routes of the world ."
12,play,play,NOUN,NN,play.n.01,play.n.01,music,music.n.01,in_topic_domains,a dramatic work intended for performance by actors on a stage,he wrote several plays but only one was produced on Broadway,"['play', 'drama', 'dramatic_play']","I stop to write a long overdue letter to a friend in Alabama , who has sent me a play of hers to read : Dear Trudy , I have purposely waited writing to you until I was truly convinced of what I am about to say ."
16,play,play,NOUN,NN,play.n.01,play.n.01,music,music.n.01,in_topic_domains,a dramatic work intended for performance by actors on a stage,he wrote several plays but only one was produced on Broadway,"['play', 'drama', 'dramatic_play']",This play of yours does not interest me very much — nor does it really interest you very much .
33,harm,harm,NOUN,NN,injury.n.01,injury.n.01,violence,injury.n.01,original,any physical damage to the body caused by violence or accident or fracture etc.; the condition of an injury,,"['injury', 'hurt', 'harm', 'trauma']","Obscenities are after all words , poetic words : they do no real harm , but in their magical connotations are better used in poetry ."
33,poetry,poetry,NOUN,NN,poetry.n.01,poetry.n.01,music,music.n.01,hyponyms,literature in metrical form,,"['poetry', 'poesy', 'verse']","Obscenities are after all words , poetic words : they do no real harm , but in their magical connotations are better used in poetry ."
42,harm,harm,VERB,VB,harm.v.01,harm.v.01,violence,harm.v.01,original,cause or do harm to,These pills won't harm your system,['harm'],"I pause a moment until my heart stops pounding ( I wonder if I am falling in love with Doris and , if so , whether this will harm or enhance the novel I am writing about her ) ."
44,opening,opening,NOUN,NN,opening.n.07,opening.n.07,music,music.n.01,hyponyms,the initial part of the introduction,the opening established the basic theme,['opening'],"It is the mailman — an invitation from the United States Information Service here in Rome to attend a lecture being given by Fernanda Pivana Sottsass ( she is the Italian translator of my first novel , Beetlecreek ) on “ The White Whale and Other Myths , ” a postcard from Harold Engels , who is vacationing on Procida , and an invitation to the opening of Giulio Turcato ’s show at the Tartaruga Gallery ( the presentation by the poet Emilio Villa begins : “ The laborious hands of Ulysses become skinned on the sharp rocks and leave tiny shreds of epidermis ... ” )"
46,excerpt,excerpt,NOUN,NN,excerpt.n.01,excerpt.n.01,music,music.n.01,hyponyms,a passage selected from a larger work,he presented excerpts from William James' philosophical writings,"['excerpt', 'excerption', 'extract', 'selection']",I pick up 11 Giorno and see that there is another excerpt from N.C. ’s “ Algerian Diary . ”
58,excerpt,excerpt,NOUN,NN,excerpt.n.01,excerpt.n.01,music,music.n.01,hyponyms,a passage selected from a larger work,he presented excerpts from William James' philosophical writings,"['excerpt', 'excerption', 'extract', 'selection']","“ Monday , March 5 , ” the excerpt from his diary begins ."
66,muskets,musket,NOUN,NNS,musket.n.01,musket.n.01,violence,weapon.n.01,hyponyms,a muzzle-loading shoulder gun with a long barrel; formerly used by infantrymen,,['musket'],"The night was very pleasant , at times the moon shining out full and clear , all Nature so calm in itself , the early summer grass so rich , and foliage of the trees — yet there the battle raging , and many good fellows lying helpless , with no accessions to them , and every minute amid the rattle of muskets and crash of cannon ( for there was an artillery contest too , the red life - blood oozing out from heads or trunks or limbs upon that green and dew - cool grass ) ."
68,charge,charge,VERB,VBP,charge.v.01,charge.v.01,violence,assail.v.01,hyponyms,"to make a rush at or sudden attack upon, as in battle",he saw Jess charging at him with a pitchfork,"['charge', 'bear_down']","The flames of fire from the cannon , the quick flaring flames and smoke , and the immense roar — the musketry so general , the light nearly bright enough for each side to see the other — the crashing , tramping of men — the yelling — close quarters — we hear the secesh yells — our men cheer loudly back , especially if Hooker is in sight — hand - to - hand conflicts , each side stands up to it , brave , determined as demons , they often charge upon us — a thousand deeds are done worth newer , greater poems on — and still the woods on fire — still many not only scorch’d — too many , unable to move , are burn’d to death . . . ”"
73,weapon,weapon,NOUN,NN,weapon.n.01,weapon.n.01,violence,weapon.n.01,original,any instrument or instrumentality used in fighting or hunting,he was licensed to carry a weapon,"['weapon', 'arm', 'weapon_system']",The cheap anonymous weapon of cheap anonymous killers .
77,sword,sword,NOUN,NN,sword.n.01,sword.n.01,violence,weapon.n.01,hyponyms,a cutting or thrusting weapon that has a long metal blade and a hilt with a hand guard,,"['sword', 'blade', 'brand', 'steel']","In this sunrise age of atomic energy the psychopathic descendants of the paladins , the mystical ( and greedy ) Knight Templars , have abandoned the sword and the certainty of faith for the underworld certainty of darkness — for the riskless anonymity of the plastic bomb !"
77,faith,faith,NOUN,NN,religion.n.01,religion.n.01,religion,religion.n.01,original,a strong belief in a supernatural power or powers that control human destiny,he lost his faith but not his morality,"['religion', 'faith', 'religious_belief']","In this sunrise age of atomic energy the psychopathic descendants of the paladins , the mystical ( and greedy ) Knight Templars , have abandoned the sword and the certainty of faith for the underworld certainty of darkness — for the riskless anonymity of the plastic bomb !"
77,underworld,underworld,NOUN,NN,hell.n.04,hell.n.04,religion,religion.n.01,in_topic_domains,(religion) the world of the dead;  - Theognis,No one goes to Hades with all his immense wealth,"['Hell', 'Hades', 'infernal_region', 'netherworld', 'Scheol', 'underworld']","In this sunrise age of atomic energy the psychopathic descendants of the paladins , the mystical ( and greedy ) Knight Templars , have abandoned the sword and the certainty of faith for the underworld certainty of darkness — for the riskless anonymity of the plastic bomb !"
80,arms,arm,NOUN,NNS,weapon.n.01,weapon.n.01,violence,weapon.n.01,original,any instrument or instrumentality used in fighting or hunting,he was licensed to carry a weapon,"['weapon', 'arm', 'weapon_system']","For plastic bombs are cheap , are as available to all as the installment purchase of a television set ( today even an oil - rich Arabian sheik can afford the price of an atomic bomb , so available have the arms of destruction become in this cruel and Gothic year 1962 ! )"
81,thrill,thrill,NOUN,NN,bang.n.04,bang.n.04,violence,bang.n.04,original,the swift release of a store of affective force,they got a great bang out of it. what a boot!. he got a quick rush from injecting heroin. he does it for kicks,"['bang', 'boot', 'charge', 'rush', 'flush', 'thrill', 'kick']","; suddenly all of us can be terrorists — a young woman , verging on insanity because of disillusionment in love , drops a poisonous pill in a metropolis ’ milk supply center ; a thrill - seeking youth , nourished on cheap intox icating drugs and comic books , surreptitiously drops a powder in the fuel tank of a proud Boeing 707 Intercontinental Jet ; anarchy , guerilla warfare spread floodlike from the fields of battle to the urban centers ; no one is safe ; the unspoken unwritten code of mutual trust upon which our increasingly complicated society depends has been violated ; no longer is there an island - protected power elite to stand by aloof and immune ; no one is safe ; mad dogs roam the streets ; the plague year is here ; a disgruntled unemployed electrician , angry with the light company for cutting off his electricity , secretly cuts a wire and the elevators of a great skyscraper in New York come to a halt between the sixty - third and sixty - fourth floors ; the plague year is here , only the God of Light and Reason , the God of Misericordia and Brotherly Love can save us ."
81,comic,comic,ADJ,JJ,comic.a.02,comic.a.02,music,music.n.01,in_topic_domains,of or relating to or characteristic of comedy,comic hero,['comic'],"; suddenly all of us can be terrorists — a young woman , verging on insanity because of disillusionment in love , drops a poisonous pill in a metropolis ’ milk supply center ; a thrill - seeking youth , nourished on cheap intox icating drugs and comic books , surreptitiously drops a powder in the fuel tank of a proud Boeing 707 Intercontinental Jet ; anarchy , guerilla warfare spread floodlike from the fields of battle to the urban centers ; no one is safe ; the unspoken unwritten code of mutual trust upon which our increasingly complicated society depends has been violated ; no longer is there an island - protected power elite to stand by aloof and immune ; no one is safe ; mad dogs roam the streets ; the plague year is here ; a disgruntled unemployed electrician , angry with the light company for cutting off his electricity , secretly cuts a wire and the elevators of a great skyscraper in New York come to a halt between the sixty - third and sixty - fourth floors ; the plague year is here , only the God of Light and Reason , the God of Misericordia and Brotherly Love can save us ."
81,books,book,NOUN,NNS,bible.n.01,bible.n.01,religion,bible.n.01,original,the sacred writings of the Christian religions,he went to carry the Word to the heathen,"['Bible', 'Christian_Bible', 'Book', 'Good_Book', 'Holy_Scripture', 'Holy_Writ', 'Scripture', 'Word_of_God', 'Word']","; suddenly all of us can be terrorists — a young woman , verging on insanity because of disillusionment in love , drops a poisonous pill in a metropolis ’ milk supply center ; a thrill - seeking youth , nourished on cheap intox icating drugs and comic books , surreptitiously drops a powder in the fuel tank of a proud Boeing 707 Intercontinental Jet ; anarchy , guerilla warfare spread floodlike from the fields of battle to the urban centers ; no one is safe ; the unspoken unwritten code of mutual trust upon which our increasingly complicated society depends has been violated ; no longer is there an island - protected power elite to stand by aloof and immune ; no one is safe ; mad dogs roam the streets ; the plague year is here ; a disgruntled unemployed electrician , angry with the light company for cutting off his electricity , secretly cuts a wire and the elevators of a great skyscraper in New York come to a halt between the sixty - third and sixty - fourth floors ; the plague year is here , only the God of Light and Reason , the God of Misericordia and Brotherly Love can save us ."
81,violated,violate,VERB,VBN,desecrate.v.01,desecrate.v.01,violence,assail.v.01,hyponyms,violate the sacred character of a place or language,desecrate a cemetery. violate the sanctity of the church. profane the name of God,"['desecrate', 'profane', 'outrage', 'violate']","; suddenly all of us can be terrorists — a young woman , verging on insanity because of disillusionment in love , drops a poisonous pill in a metropolis ’ milk supply center ; a thrill - seeking youth , nourished on cheap intox icating drugs and comic books , surreptitiously drops a powder in the fuel tank of a proud Boeing 707 Intercontinental Jet ; anarchy , guerilla warfare spread floodlike from the fields of battle to the urban centers ; no one is safe ; the unspoken unwritten code of mutual trust upon which our increasingly complicated society depends has been violated ; no longer is there an island - protected power elite to stand by aloof and immune ; no one is safe ; mad dogs roam the streets ; the plague year is here ; a disgruntled unemployed electrician , angry with the light company for cutting off his electricity , secretly cuts a wire and the elevators of a great skyscraper in New York come to a halt between the sixty - third and sixty - fourth floors ; the plague year is here , only the God of Light and Reason , the God of Misericordia and Brotherly Love can save us ."
81,God,God,PROPN,NNP,deity.n.01,deity.n.01,religion,deity.n.01,original,any supernatural being worshipped as controlling some part of the world or some aspect of life or who is the personification of a force,,"['deity', 'divinity', 'god', 'immortal']","; suddenly all of us can be terrorists — a young woman , verging on insanity because of disillusionment in love , drops a poisonous pill in a metropolis ’ milk supply center ; a thrill - seeking youth , nourished on cheap intox icating drugs and comic books , surreptitiously drops a powder in the fuel tank of a proud Boeing 707 Intercontinental Jet ; anarchy , guerilla warfare spread floodlike from the fields of battle to the urban centers ; no one is safe ; the unspoken unwritten code of mutual trust upon which our increasingly complicated society depends has been violated ; no longer is there an island - protected power elite to stand by aloof and immune ; no one is safe ; mad dogs roam the streets ; the plague year is here ; a disgruntled unemployed electrician , angry with the light company for cutting off his electricity , secretly cuts a wire and the elevators of a great skyscraper in New York come to a halt between the sixty - third and sixty - fourth floors ; the plague year is here , only the God of Light and Reason , the God of Misericordia and Brotherly Love can save us ."
81,God,God,PROPN,NNP,deity.n.01,deity.n.01,religion,deity.n.01,original,any supernatural being worshipped as controlling some part of the world or some aspect of life or who is the personification of a force,,"['deity', 'divinity', 'god', 'immortal']","; suddenly all of us can be terrorists — a young woman , verging on insanity because of disillusionment in love , drops a poisonous pill in a metropolis ’ milk supply center ; a thrill - seeking youth , nourished on cheap intox icating drugs and comic books , surreptitiously drops a powder in the fuel tank of a proud Boeing 707 Intercontinental Jet ; anarchy , guerilla warfare spread floodlike from the fields of battle to the urban centers ; no one is safe ; the unspoken unwritten code of mutual trust upon which our increasingly complicated society depends has been violated ; no longer is there an island - protected power elite to stand by aloof and immune ; no one is safe ; mad dogs roam the streets ; the plague year is here ; a disgruntled unemployed electrician , angry with the light company for cutting off his electricity , secretly cuts a wire and the elevators of a great skyscraper in New York come to a halt between the sixty - third and sixty - fourth floors ; the plague year is here , only the God of Light and Reason , the God of Misericordia and Brotherly Love can save us ."
85,dancing,dance,VERB,VBG,dance.v.01,dance.v.01,music,dance.v.01,original,move in a graceful and rhythmical way,The young girl danced into the room,['dance'],"As always , her astonishing nightclub - dancing vitality intimidates me ."
93,roundness,roundness,NOUN,NN,roundness.n.01,roundness.n.01,music,music.n.01,hyponyms,the fullness of a tone of voice,there is a musky roundness to his wordiness,"['roundness', 'rotundity']","Doris says ( as magically the ray of the morning sun shifts from my Rotella collages and spotlights now the subtle roundness of her chaste hips in repose ): “ Oh , these Italians !"
97,beating,beat,VERB,VBG,beat.v.19,beat.v.19,music,music.n.01,in_topic_domains,produce a rhythm by striking repeatedly,beat the drum,['beat'],"Alert , my forefinger nervously beating out a tom - tom rhythm on my table , I say : “ Doris , you ’re drunk , and at this time of the morning ! ”"
100,sword,sword,NOUN,NN,sword.n.01,sword.n.01,violence,weapon.n.01,hyponyms,a cutting or thrusting weapon that has a long metal blade and a hilt with a hand guard,,"['sword', 'blade', 'brand', 'steel']","Aggressively Doris snatches a cigarette from her silver cigarette case ; it is as if she is unsheathing a sword for a duel : “ Did something go wrong , the professor wants to know ! ”"
101,tone,tone,NOUN,NN,tone.n.01,tone.n.01,music,music.n.01,hyponyms,the quality of a person's voice,he began in a conversational tone. he spoke in a nervous tone of voice,"['tone', 'tone_of_voice']","she says , cruelly mimicking what already I realize had been a condescending , oh - so - understanding , writer - interviewer ’s tone of voice ."
115,saints,saint,NOUN,NNS,saint.n.01,saint.n.01,religion,deity.n.01,hyponyms,a person who has died and has been declared a saint by canonization,,['saint'],"She is thinking : “ Rome is beginning to give me the creeps , all this antiquity , all this piling up dead things and dead people on top of each other , those Catacombs damn sure gave me the creeps , the way that Irish priest cracked jokes and played with those bones ; saints or no saints , I just do n’t like ..."
115,saints,saint,NOUN,NNS,saint.n.01,saint.n.01,religion,deity.n.01,hyponyms,a person who has died and has been declared a saint by canonization,,['saint'],"She is thinking : “ Rome is beginning to give me the creeps , all this antiquity , all this piling up dead things and dead people on top of each other , those Catacombs damn sure gave me the creeps , the way that Irish priest cracked jokes and played with those bones ; saints or no saints , I just do n’t like ..."
143,Lord,Lord,PROPN,NNP,godhead.n.01,godhead.n.01,religion,godhead.n.01,original,terms referring to the Judeo-Christian God,,"['Godhead', 'Lord', 'Creator', 'Maker', 'Divine', 'God_Almighty', 'Almighty', 'Jehovah']",“ What I mean is — if you really had to take me sightseeing — and the good Lord knows I have enough sightseeing to my credit to have earned at least five Mortician degrees — why bring me to the Catacombs ?
144,churches,church,NOUN,NNS,church.n.02,church.n.02,religion,church.n.02,original,a place for public (especially Christian) worship,the church was empty,"['church', 'church_building']",Is n’t there anything else to see in Rome except churches and tombs ? ”
158,offended,offend,VERB,VBN,pique.v.01,pique.v.01,violence,anger.v.01,hyponyms,cause to feel resentment or indignation,Her tactless remark offended me,"['pique', 'offend']","But as soon as the words have crossed his lips , he realizes that Doris is offended ."
159,tone,tone,NOUN,NN,tone.n.01,tone.n.01,music,music.n.01,hyponyms,the quality of a person's voice,he began in a conversational tone. he spoke in a nervous tone of voice,"['tone', 'tone_of_voice']",Desperately he tries to think of something to say that will mitigate the implied reproach of his tone .
163,hell,hell,NOUN,NN,hell.n.03,hell.n.03,religion,religion.n.01,in_topic_domains,(Christianity) the abode of Satan and the forces of evil; where sinners suffer eternal punishment;  - John Milton; ;  - Dr. Johnson,"Hurl'd headlong...To bottomless perdition, there to dwell. a demon from the depths of the pit. Hell is paved with good intentions","['Hell', 'perdition', 'Inferno', 'infernal_region', 'nether_region', 'pit']","Why , hell , you could get lost down there , saints and martyrs , the sneaky way that Irish priest looked at me and cracked jokes and played with those bones , he ’s trying to make me , and do you know something , girl , you ’re going to let yourself get made , why not — ?"
163,saints,saint,NOUN,NNS,saint.n.01,saint.n.01,religion,deity.n.01,hyponyms,a person who has died and has been declared a saint by canonization,,['saint'],"Why , hell , you could get lost down there , saints and martyrs , the sneaky way that Irish priest looked at me and cracked jokes and played with those bones , he ’s trying to make me , and do you know something , girl , you ’re going to let yourself get made , why not — ?"
187,gun,gun,NOUN,NN,gun.n.01,gun.n.01,violence,weapon.n.01,hyponyms,a weapon that discharges a missile at high velocity (especially from a metal tube or barrel),,['gun'],"As Doris turns to look toward the door ( the waiter is leading two mud - caked hunters across the room : the taller hunter slips his gun off his shoulders and says as he slumps down wearily on the chair the waiter is holding for him : “ Accidenti che pioggia — ! ” ) , the Count , who is slyly observing Doris , is suddenly reminded of gold and rubies , of black Byzantine madonnas , amulets and incensed prayers ."
187,prayers,prayer,NOUN,NNS,prayer.n.02,prayer.n.02,religion,prayer.n.02,original,reverent petition to a deity,,"['prayer', 'petition', 'orison']","As Doris turns to look toward the door ( the waiter is leading two mud - caked hunters across the room : the taller hunter slips his gun off his shoulders and says as he slumps down wearily on the chair the waiter is holding for him : “ Accidenti che pioggia — ! ” ) , the Count , who is slyly observing Doris , is suddenly reminded of gold and rubies , of black Byzantine madonnas , amulets and incensed prayers ."
188,jealousy,jealousy,NOUN,NN,jealousy.n.01,jealousy.n.01,violence,hate.n.01,hyponyms,a feeling of jealous envy (especially of a rival),,"['jealousy', 'green-eyed_monster']","Annoyed at the way the two hunters are boldly ogling her ( for through her long warm fingers he can feel her whole body expand like a watch spring suddenly released : aware of the mud - caked hunters ’ virile devotion , Doris throws her head back and laughs , pulls away her hand , fumbles nervously in her brocade handbag for her lipstick and begins to stripe her pouting lips a waxy ruby red ) , the Count says , surprised at the uncontrolled tremor of jealousy in his voice : “ I ’m sure you would have made a perfectly marvelous social worker — I can just see you , visiting lonely old men in their shabby rented rooms , massaging their trodden egos ajid lecturing them on the need for moral uplift . . . ”"
279,keys,key,NOUN,NNS,key.n.04,key.n.04,music,music.n.01,hyponyms,any of 24 major or minor diatonic scales that provide the tonal framework for a piece of music,,"['key', 'tonality']","I ask ( today is a gray day , the clouds are sullen and refuse to rise , the air stands still , numb and defiant , like weary workers after ninety days on strike ; last night in the pizzeria my — for me — interesting conversation with B. about American show business , especially the showboats that used to ply the Ohio and Mississippi rivers ; we compared the time — time , always time — it takes for the act of fingers touching the keys of a harpsichord , which is plucked , and a calypso on a showboat , which involves the passage of steam through long narrow pipes , souls through labyrinths , air through the organ pipes of Bach , father and son ; but this conversation , extremely interesting to me , kept being interrupted by a Spanish poet in exile who wanted to talk about bullfights and Moors , he said that eroticism and mysticism are the same soup , he said , he said — and the morning ’s papers full of revolts , Argentina , Syria , Algeria , uffa ; Doris is wearing a sober gray flannel suit ; today is March 31 ) ..."
279,harpsichord,harpsichord,NOUN,NN,harpsichord.n.01,harpsichord.n.01,music,musical_instrument.n.01,hyponyms,a clavier with strings that are plucked by plectra mounted on pivots,,"['harpsichord', 'cembalo']","I ask ( today is a gray day , the clouds are sullen and refuse to rise , the air stands still , numb and defiant , like weary workers after ninety days on strike ; last night in the pizzeria my — for me — interesting conversation with B. about American show business , especially the showboats that used to ply the Ohio and Mississippi rivers ; we compared the time — time , always time — it takes for the act of fingers touching the keys of a harpsichord , which is plucked , and a calypso on a showboat , which involves the passage of steam through long narrow pipes , souls through labyrinths , air through the organ pipes of Bach , father and son ; but this conversation , extremely interesting to me , kept being interrupted by a Spanish poet in exile who wanted to talk about bullfights and Moors , he said that eroticism and mysticism are the same soup , he said , he said — and the morning ’s papers full of revolts , Argentina , Syria , Algeria , uffa ; Doris is wearing a sober gray flannel suit ; today is March 31 ) ..."
279,pipes,pipe,NOUN,NNS,organ_pipe.n.01,organ_pipe.n.01,music,musical_instrument.n.01,hyponyms,the flues and stops on a pipe organ,,"['organ_pipe', 'pipe', 'pipework']","I ask ( today is a gray day , the clouds are sullen and refuse to rise , the air stands still , numb and defiant , like weary workers after ninety days on strike ; last night in the pizzeria my — for me — interesting conversation with B. about American show business , especially the showboats that used to ply the Ohio and Mississippi rivers ; we compared the time — time , always time — it takes for the act of fingers touching the keys of a harpsichord , which is plucked , and a calypso on a showboat , which involves the passage of steam through long narrow pipes , souls through labyrinths , air through the organ pipes of Bach , father and son ; but this conversation , extremely interesting to me , kept being interrupted by a Spanish poet in exile who wanted to talk about bullfights and Moors , he said that eroticism and mysticism are the same soup , he said , he said — and the morning ’s papers full of revolts , Argentina , Syria , Algeria , uffa ; Doris is wearing a sober gray flannel suit ; today is March 31 ) ..."
279,organ,organ,NOUN,NN,organ.n.05,organ.n.05,music,musical_instrument.n.01,hyponyms,wind instrument whose sound is produced by means of pipes arranged in sets supplied with air from a bellows and controlled from a large complex musical keyboard,,"['organ', 'pipe_organ']","I ask ( today is a gray day , the clouds are sullen and refuse to rise , the air stands still , numb and defiant , like weary workers after ninety days on strike ; last night in the pizzeria my — for me — interesting conversation with B. about American show business , especially the showboats that used to ply the Ohio and Mississippi rivers ; we compared the time — time , always time — it takes for the act of fingers touching the keys of a harpsichord , which is plucked , and a calypso on a showboat , which involves the passage of steam through long narrow pipes , souls through labyrinths , air through the organ pipes of Bach , father and son ; but this conversation , extremely interesting to me , kept being interrupted by a Spanish poet in exile who wanted to talk about bullfights and Moors , he said that eroticism and mysticism are the same soup , he said , he said — and the morning ’s papers full of revolts , Argentina , Syria , Algeria , uffa ; Doris is wearing a sober gray flannel suit ; today is March 31 ) ..."
279,pipes,pipe,NOUN,NNS,organ_pipe.n.01,organ_pipe.n.01,music,musical_instrument.n.01,hyponyms,the flues and stops on a pipe organ,,"['organ_pipe', 'pipe', 'pipework']","I ask ( today is a gray day , the clouds are sullen and refuse to rise , the air stands still , numb and defiant , like weary workers after ninety days on strike ; last night in the pizzeria my — for me — interesting conversation with B. about American show business , especially the showboats that used to ply the Ohio and Mississippi rivers ; we compared the time — time , always time — it takes for the act of fingers touching the keys of a harpsichord , which is plucked , and a calypso on a showboat , which involves the passage of steam through long narrow pipes , souls through labyrinths , air through the organ pipes of Bach , father and son ; but this conversation , extremely interesting to me , kept being interrupted by a Spanish poet in exile who wanted to talk about bullfights and Moors , he said that eroticism and mysticism are the same soup , he said , he said — and the morning ’s papers full of revolts , Argentina , Syria , Algeria , uffa ; Doris is wearing a sober gray flannel suit ; today is March 31 ) ..."
279,Bach,Bach,PROPN,NNP,bach.n.02,bach.n.02,music,music.n.01,hyponyms,the music of Bach,he played Bach on the organ,['Bach'],"I ask ( today is a gray day , the clouds are sullen and refuse to rise , the air stands still , numb and defiant , like weary workers after ninety days on strike ; last night in the pizzeria my — for me — interesting conversation with B. about American show business , especially the showboats that used to ply the Ohio and Mississippi rivers ; we compared the time — time , always time — it takes for the act of fingers touching the keys of a harpsichord , which is plucked , and a calypso on a showboat , which involves the passage of steam through long narrow pipes , souls through labyrinths , air through the organ pipes of Bach , father and son ; but this conversation , extremely interesting to me , kept being interrupted by a Spanish poet in exile who wanted to talk about bullfights and Moors , he said that eroticism and mysticism are the same soup , he said , he said — and the morning ’s papers full of revolts , Argentina , Syria , Algeria , uffa ; Doris is wearing a sober gray flannel suit ; today is March 31 ) ..."
296,image,image,NOUN,NN,trope.n.01,trope.n.01,music,music.n.01,hyponyms,language used in a figurative or nonliteral sense,,"['trope', 'figure_of_speech', 'figure', 'image']","Over my head is an image , Rembrandt - like , darkly varnished , painted on wood ( Ein Tip bei dem ich nie verbier bier : who of you remembers when , in America , there was a craze for making pictures , burning pictures of reindeer and snow - capped mountains — time , always time , listening , always listening , billions of years of imprisoned memory undistilled , electric - pointed stylus , plastic ballpoint pen ) of St. Hubert Priez Pour Nous !"
298,kill,kill,VERB,VB,kill.v.01,kill.v.01,violence,kill.v.01,original,"cause to die; put to death, usually intentionally or knowingly",This man killed several people when he tried to rob a bank. The farmer killed a pig for the holidays,['kill'],"T. says , and Emma agrees , that you can not kill a reindeer if he looks you in the eye ."
302,Moslems,Moslems,PROPN,NNPS,muslim.n.01,muslim.n.01,religion,islam.n.01,member_meronyms,a believer in or follower of Islam,,"['Muslim', 'Moslem']","The Algerian War is finally over , but yesterday the Secret Army terrorists murdered forty Moslems , patients in a hospital in Oran , machine gun and plastic bomb ."
302,gun,gun,NOUN,NN,gun.n.01,gun.n.01,violence,weapon.n.01,hyponyms,a weapon that discharges a missile at high velocity (especially from a metal tube or barrel),,['gun'],"The Algerian War is finally over , but yesterday the Secret Army terrorists murdered forty Moslems , patients in a hospital in Oran , machine gun and plastic bomb ."
315,classical,classical,ADJ,JJ,classical.s.06,classical.s.06,music,music.n.01,in_topic_domains,"of or relating to music in the European tradition, such as symphonies and operas",classical music,['classical'],We ’d go to the library every evening after dinner to study or listen to classical records .
333,dance,dance,NOUN,NN,dance.n.02,dance.n.02,music,dance.n.02,original,a party of people assembled for dancing,,['dance'],"Just before the first bird heard the rising of the morning sun , I had a strong dream tattooed on my consciousness : I dreamed of Prince Vittorio Massino ; there was a party ; I met a golden black - eyed Saracen pirate girl ; in her presence there was joy and musical sorrow , not suffering ; she said to Prince Vittorio , ‘ Come on , Prince , let ’s go and have a dance ! ’"
350,MUSIC,MUSIC,PROPN,NNP,music.n.01,music.n.01,music,music.n.01,original,an artistic form of auditory communication incorporating instrumental or vocal tones in a structured and continuous manner,,['music'],"As Brenno closes the door behind him , the cheering dies down and fades into the LOVE THEME MUSIC ."
356,DISSOLVE,DISSOLVE,PROPN,NNP,dissolve.n.01,dissolve.n.01,music,music.n.01,hyponyms,(film) a gradual transition from one scene to the next; the next scene is gradually superimposed as the former scene fades out,,['dissolve'],DISSOLVE TO THE END
369,Saint,Saint,PROPN,NNP,saint.n.01,saint.n.01,religion,deity.n.01,hyponyms,a person who has died and has been declared a saint by canonization,,['saint'],"April 21 is the Saint Day of Saint Anselm , 103 3 - 1109 , Archbishop of Canterbury , theologian and philosopher , the propounder of the ontological argument for the existence of God , born at Aosta in Piedmont , of noble family , in his greatest work , Cut Deus Homo , 1094 - 98 , he undertakes to make plain , even to infidels , the rational necessity of the Atonement . . ."
369,Saint,Saint,PROPN,NNP,saint.n.01,saint.n.01,religion,deity.n.01,hyponyms,a person who has died and has been declared a saint by canonization,,['saint'],"April 21 is the Saint Day of Saint Anselm , 103 3 - 1109 , Archbishop of Canterbury , theologian and philosopher , the propounder of the ontological argument for the existence of God , born at Aosta in Piedmont , of noble family , in his greatest work , Cut Deus Homo , 1094 - 98 , he undertakes to make plain , even to infidels , the rational necessity of the Atonement . . ."
369,Archbishop,Archbishop,PROPN,NNP,archbishop.n.01,archbishop.n.01,religion,religion.n.02,hyponyms,a bishop of highest rank,,['archbishop'],"April 21 is the Saint Day of Saint Anselm , 103 3 - 1109 , Archbishop of Canterbury , theologian and philosopher , the propounder of the ontological argument for the existence of God , born at Aosta in Piedmont , of noble family , in his greatest work , Cut Deus Homo , 1094 - 98 , he undertakes to make plain , even to infidels , the rational necessity of the Atonement . . ."
369,God,God,PROPN,NNP,god.n.01,god.n.01,religion,god.n.01,original,the supernatural being conceived as the perfect and omnipotent and omniscient originator and ruler of the universe; the object of worship in monotheistic religions,,"['God', 'Supreme_Being']","April 21 is the Saint Day of Saint Anselm , 103 3 - 1109 , Archbishop of Canterbury , theologian and philosopher , the propounder of the ontological argument for the existence of God , born at Aosta in Piedmont , of noble family , in his greatest work , Cut Deus Homo , 1094 - 98 , he undertakes to make plain , even to infidels , the rational necessity of the Atonement . . ."
369,Atonement,Atonement,PROPN,NNP,expiation.n.02,expiation.n.02,religion,theology.n.01,hyponyms,the act of atoning for sin or wrongdoing (especially appeasing a deity),,"['expiation', 'atonement', 'propitiation']","April 21 is the Saint Day of Saint Anselm , 103 3 - 1109 , Archbishop of Canterbury , theologian and philosopher , the propounder of the ontological argument for the existence of God , born at Aosta in Piedmont , of noble family , in his greatest work , Cut Deus Homo , 1094 - 98 , he undertakes to make plain , even to infidels , the rational necessity of the Atonement . . ."
375,killed,kill,VERB,VBN,kill.v.01,kill.v.01,violence,kill.v.01,original,"cause to die; put to death, usually intentionally or knowingly",This man killed several people when he tried to rob a bank. The farmer killed a pig for the holidays,['kill'],"There are rumors circulating that Jacques Soustelle , ex - Gaullist leader , has been killed in South America by anti - Secret Army Agents . ”"
387,tormented,torment,VERB,VBD,torment.v.01,torment.v.01,violence,pain.v.02,hyponyms,torment emotionally or mentally,,"['torment', 'torture', 'excruciate', 'rack']",A wild wind tormented the palm trees in the courtyard .
448,player,player,NOUN,NN,musician.n.01,musician.n.01,music,musician.n.01,original,someone who plays a music as a profession,,"['musician', 'instrumentalist', 'player']","Truman Young , the trombone player , said that I was going to make a lot of money as a writer ."
450,killed,kill,VERB,VBN,kill.v.01,kill.v.01,violence,kill.v.01,original,"cause to die; put to death, usually intentionally or knowingly",This man killed several people when he tried to rob a bank. The farmer killed a pig for the holidays,['kill'],"I read in the evening papers that a shepherd was killed and run over three times on the twenty - third kilometer of the Via Pontina , which is not far from our vineyard ."
452,attacked,attack,VERB,VBD,attack.v.02,attack.v.02,violence,attack.v.02,original,attack in speech or writing,The editors of the left-leaning paper attacked the new House Speaker,"['attack', 'round', 'assail', 'lash_out', 'snipe', 'assault']","The responsible press is indignant because the Fascist agitators who attacked members of the Congress for the Liberta per il Popolo Spagnolo while they were leaving Palazzo Brancaccio at the end of the session the day I read a statement on behalf of the American writers , received only light fines ."
453,attacking,attack,VERB,VBG,attack.v.02,attack.v.02,violence,attack.v.02,original,attack in speech or writing,The editors of the left-leaning paper attacked the new House Speaker,"['attack', 'round', 'assail', 'lash_out', 'snipe', 'assault']","In this morning ’s edition of II Giorno I read that P. , who has been accused of trying to hold up a gas station in Latina , has offered to take “ truth serum ” and undergo questioning by all those journalists of the extreme right who have been so mercilessly , and unjustly , attacking him ."
461,Devil,Devil,PROPN,NNP,satan.n.01,satan.n.01,religion,religion.n.01,in_topic_domains,(Judeo-Christian and Islamic religions) chief spirit of evil and adversary of God; tempter of mankind; master of Hell,,"['Satan', 'Old_Nick', 'Devil', 'Lucifer', 'Beelzebub', 'the_Tempter', 'Prince_of_Darkness']","“ If the Devil exists , then God exists . ."
461,God,God,PROPN,NNP,god.n.01,god.n.01,religion,god.n.01,original,the supernatural being conceived as the perfect and omnipotent and omniscient originator and ruler of the universe; the object of worship in monotheistic religions,,"['God', 'Supreme_Being']","“ If the Devil exists , then God exists . ."
470,saints,saint,NOUN,NNS,saint.n.01,saint.n.01,religion,deity.n.01,hyponyms,a person who has died and has been declared a saint by canonization,,['saint'],"In the afternoon edition of Paese Sera there is an unusually long article about illegitimate saints in Paradise , with much space given to Saint George , patron saint of England , Saint George and the dragon !"
470,Saint,Saint,PROPN,NNP,saint.n.01,saint.n.01,religion,deity.n.01,hyponyms,a person who has died and has been declared a saint by canonization,,['saint'],"In the afternoon edition of Paese Sera there is an unusually long article about illegitimate saints in Paradise , with much space given to Saint George , patron saint of England , Saint George and the dragon !"
470,saint,saint,NOUN,NN,saint.n.01,saint.n.01,religion,deity.n.01,hyponyms,a person who has died and has been declared a saint by canonization,,['saint'],"In the afternoon edition of Paese Sera there is an unusually long article about illegitimate saints in Paradise , with much space given to Saint George , patron saint of England , Saint George and the dragon !"
470,Saint,Saint,PROPN,NNP,saint.n.01,saint.n.01,religion,deity.n.01,hyponyms,a person who has died and has been declared a saint by canonization,,['saint'],"In the afternoon edition of Paese Sera there is an unusually long article about illegitimate saints in Paradise , with much space given to Saint George , patron saint of England , Saint George and the dragon !"
490,Wagner,Wagner,PROPN,NNP,wagner.n.03,wagner.n.03,music,music.n.01,hyponyms,the music of Wagner,they say that Hitler listened only to Wagner,['Wagner'],"Eddie Fisher , Cleopatra ’s husband , will divorce Elizabeth Taylor to marry Natalie Wood , wife of Robert Wagner , who did not get the Oscar because it had to be given to Sophia Loren ."
493,maker,maker,NOUN,NN,godhead.n.01,godhead.n.01,religion,godhead.n.01,original,terms referring to the Judeo-Christian God,,"['Godhead', 'Lord', 'Creator', 'Maker', 'Divine', 'God_Almighty', 'Almighty', 'Jehovah']","My wife , my son and my mother - in - law have gone to the Vatican to buy Easter eggs , whiskey and cigarettes in the company of a mysterious maker of watches — time , always time , listening , always listening ."
493,watches,watch,NOUN,NNS,vigil.n.02,vigil.n.02,religion,religion.n.01,in_topic_domains,the rite of staying awake for devotional purposes (especially on the eve of a religious festival),,"['vigil', 'watch']","My wife , my son and my mother - in - law have gone to the Vatican to buy Easter eggs , whiskey and cigarettes in the company of a mysterious maker of watches — time , always time , listening , always listening ."
500,suffocating,suffocate,VERB,VBG,smother.v.02,smother.v.02,violence,kill.v.01,hyponyms,deprive of oxygen and prevent from breathing,Othello smothered Desdemona with a pillow. The child suffocated herself with a plastic bag that the parents had left on the floor,"['smother', 'asphyxiate', 'suffocate']",".. until we end up at a terrifyingly lurid bar , filled with gold - covered chocolate Easter eggs that line the wall and hang suspended from the ceiling , like bombs about to fall , or drops of dew ; inside that bar there is a suffocating junglelike atmosphere of pregnancy , the glaring white neon , the gold foil , eggs , dewdrops , bombs — whatever they are , they are ready to fall ."
526,Moslem,Moslem,PROPN,NNP,muslim.n.01,muslim.n.01,religion,islam.n.01,member_meronyms,a believer in or follower of Islam,,"['Muslim', 'Moslem']","The French president has delivered to General Fourchet , commander - in - chief of the troops in Algeria , personal and written instructions to proceed immediately and with all means to the complete control of Algeria and Oran where the OAS is applying the total blockade of the Moslem quarters .. ."
567,annoyance,annoyance,NOUN,NN,annoyance.n.02,annoyance.n.02,violence,anger.n.01,hyponyms,anger produced by some annoying irritation,,"['annoyance', 'chafe', 'vexation']","Then to the ill - concealed annoyance of Angela , my son ’s nurse , Doris insisted on undressing him and putting him to bed ."
569,resentment,resentment,NOUN,NN,resentment.n.01,resentment.n.01,violence,hate.n.01,hyponyms,a feeling of deep and bitter anger and ill-will,,"['resentment', 'bitterness', 'gall', 'rancor', 'rancour']","When she said that , some gnawing sense of shame or resentment ( perhaps I was jealous that my fictional Doris was being contaminated by the prosaic intimacy of my domestic life , or perhaps I was afraid that my wife , as on so many occasions before , was reading the stormy weather map of my mind ) prodded me into saying with savage rudeness : “ Idiota ! ”"
570,playlets,playlet,NOUN,NNS,playlet.n.01,playlet.n.01,music,music.n.01,hyponyms,a short play,,['playlet'],"Even before the word crossed my lips , I was sorry and contrite , but for the rest of the evening my wife was coldly polite but distant , and the meal was one of those dreamlike playlets in which the characters speak too fast and are always saying excuse me for overrunning the other ’s phrase ."
607,Segni,Segni,PROPN,NNP,segno.n.01,segno.n.01,music,music.n.01,in_topic_domains,(music) a notation written at the beginning or end of a passage that is to be repeated,,['segno'],Segni has been elected president of the Republic .
610,assassinate,assassinate,VERB,VB,assassinate.v.01,assassinate.v.01,violence,kill.v.01,hyponyms,murder; especially of socially prominent persons,Anwar Sadat was assassinated because many people did not like his peace politics with Israel,['assassinate'],The OAS tried to assassinate De Gaulle and failed .
627,hanged,hang,VERB,VBN,hang.v.03,hang.v.03,violence,kill.v.01,hyponyms,kill by hanging,The murderer was hanged on Friday,"['hang', 'string_up']","While I was in bed with the mumps , Salan escaped the death penalty , though he admitted being responsible for the OAS crimes in Algeria ; Eichmann was hanged in Israel and his ashes were scattered over the sea ; Young Fascists in Rome invaded the ghetto at Portico d’Ottavia to post Fascist political posters on the wall of the synagogue during the recent election campaign ; Carpenter orbited three times around the earth ; in Portugal and in Spain workers are on strike . . ."
627,synagogue,synagogue,NOUN,NN,synagogue.n.01,synagogue.n.01,religion,religion.n.01,in_topic_domains,(Judaism) the place of worship for a Jewish congregation,,"['synagogue', 'temple', 'tabernacle']","While I was in bed with the mumps , Salan escaped the death penalty , though he admitted being responsible for the OAS crimes in Algeria ; Eichmann was hanged in Israel and his ashes were scattered over the sea ; Young Fascists in Rome invaded the ghetto at Portico d’Ottavia to post Fascist political posters on the wall of the synagogue during the recent election campaign ; Carpenter orbited three times around the earth ; in Portugal and in Spain workers are on strike . . ."
627,election,election,NOUN,NN,election.n.04,election.n.04,religion,theology.n.01,hyponyms,the predestination of some individuals as objects of divine mercy (especially as conceived by Calvinists),,['election'],"While I was in bed with the mumps , Salan escaped the death penalty , though he admitted being responsible for the OAS crimes in Algeria ; Eichmann was hanged in Israel and his ashes were scattered over the sea ; Young Fascists in Rome invaded the ghetto at Portico d’Ottavia to post Fascist political posters on the wall of the synagogue during the recent election campaign ; Carpenter orbited three times around the earth ; in Portugal and in Spain workers are on strike . . ."
630,kill,kill,VERB,VB,kill.v.01,kill.v.01,violence,kill.v.01,original,"cause to die; put to death, usually intentionally or knowingly",This man killed several people when he tried to rob a bank. The farmer killed a pig for the holidays,['kill'],"Why , why did Laura want to kill herself ?"
635,poetry,poetry,NOUN,NN,poetry.n.01,poetry.n.01,music,music.n.01,hyponyms,literature in metrical form,,"['poetry', 'poesy', 'verse']","And now I remember something else : When J.P. , Laura ’s husband , came back to her after the long ( marital crisis ) separation , during which he won a literary prize in London for a recently published book of poetry , he came to see me ."
642,Protestant,protestant,ADJ,JJ,protestant.a.01,protestant.a.01,religion,religion.n.01,in_topic_domains,of or relating to Protestants or Protestantism,Protestant churches. a Protestant denomination,['Protestant'],Most of the people gathered in the Protestant cemetery near the Pyramid were friends of Laura ’s from FAO where she worked as a secretary .
646,Calvinistic,calvinistic,ADJ,JJ,calvinist.a.01,calvinist.a.01,religion,religion.n.01,in_topic_domains,of or relating to or characteristic of Calvinism or its adherents,,"['Calvinist', 'Calvinistic', 'Calvinistical']",Their grave - digging uniforms were like the uniforms of the Vatican Swiss Guards dyed black ; they were very efficient in a Swiss Calvinistic way .
647,droning,droning,NOUN,NN,monotone.n.01,monotone.n.01,music,music.n.01,hyponyms,an unchanging intonation,,"['monotone', 'drone', 'droning']",A wind blew and caused the pines to sway and drowned out the droning sound of the Protestant minister ’s reading of the funeral service .
647,Protestant,protestant,ADJ,JJ,protestant.a.01,protestant.a.01,religion,religion.n.01,in_topic_domains,of or relating to Protestants or Protestantism,Protestant churches. a Protestant denomination,['Protestant'],A wind blew and caused the pines to sway and drowned out the droning sound of the Protestant minister ’s reading of the funeral service .
652,Book,Book,PROPN,NNP,bible.n.01,bible.n.01,religion,bible.n.01,original,the sacred writings of the Christian religions,he went to carry the Word to the heathen,"['Bible', 'Christian_Bible', 'Book', 'Good_Book', 'Holy_Scripture', 'Holy_Writ', 'Scripture', 'Word_of_God', 'Word']",The Book of Common Prayer .. .
652,Prayer,Prayer,PROPN,NNP,prayer.n.04,prayer.n.04,religion,prayer.n.04,original,a fixed text used in praying,,['prayer'],The Book of Common Prayer .. .
666,Catholic,Catholic,PROPN,NNP,catholic.n.01,catholic.n.01,religion,religion.n.02,member_meronyms,a member of a Catholic church,,['Catholic'],"Liliana ’s tears come almost as a relief to my wife ( or so I imagine ) , for I suspect that her profoundly pagan - Catholic sensitivity has somehow been offended by the tearless Swiss efficiency of Laura ’s passage to the Other World ."
672,dance,dance,NOUN,NN,dance.n.04,dance.n.04,music,dance.n.04,original,a party for social dancing,,['dance'],"Strangely , I was never attracted to her physically , though last October , the night before I went to America , we did a gro- tesque dance together at a party she gave : we rolled around on the floor wildly like two bottles being spun in a children ’s kissing game ..."
674,clippings,clipping,NOUN,NNS,clipping.n.01,clipping.n.01,music,music.n.01,hyponyms,an excerpt cut from a newspaper or magazine,he searched through piles of letters and clippings,"['clipping', 'newspaper_clipping', 'press_clipping', 'cutting', 'press_cutting']",For Emma had been fond of Laura and had cut out the newspaper clippings about Laura ’s suicide to take home and place among her souvenirs .
680,Book,Book,PROPN,NNP,bible.n.01,bible.n.01,religion,bible.n.01,original,the sacred writings of the Christian religions,he went to carry the Word to the heathen,"['Bible', 'Christian_Bible', 'Book', 'Good_Book', 'Holy_Scripture', 'Holy_Writ', 'Scripture', 'Word_of_God', 'Word']",The Book of Common Prayer .. .
680,Prayer,Prayer,PROPN,NNP,prayer.n.04,prayer.n.04,religion,prayer.n.04,original,a fixed text used in praying,,['prayer'],The Book of Common Prayer .. .
689,jazz,jazz,NOUN,NN,jazz.n.03,jazz.n.03,music,music.n.01,hyponyms,a style of dance music popular in the 1920s; similar to New Orleans jazz but played by large bands,,['jazz'],"Benny Goodman brings jazz to Russia , commies call TEST BOMB WORK OF ATOMIC MANICS . . ."
694,suicide,suicide,NOUN,NN,suicide.n.01,suicide.n.01,violence,killing.n.02,hyponyms,the act of killing yourself,it is a crime to commit suicide,"['suicide', 'self-destruction', 'self-annihilation']","But first , another suicide : On Monday , July 2 , General Rene de Larminat , president of the Military Court of Justice appointed by General De Gaulle to try General Salan for additional acts of sedition committed in prison after the scandalous trial before the Special Military Tribune which resulted in his escaping the death penalty , pointed a pistol in his mouth and blew out his brains rather than face the possibility of having to sentence to death his highly decorated colleague in a new trial . . ."
694,pistol,pistol,NOUN,NN,pistol.n.01,pistol.n.01,violence,weapon.n.01,hyponyms,a firearm that is held and fired with one hand,,"['pistol', 'handgun', 'side_arm', 'shooting_iron']","But first , another suicide : On Monday , July 2 , General Rene de Larminat , president of the Military Court of Justice appointed by General De Gaulle to try General Salan for additional acts of sedition committed in prison after the scandalous trial before the Special Military Tribune which resulted in his escaping the death penalty , pointed a pistol in his mouth and blew out his brains rather than face the possibility of having to sentence to death his highly decorated colleague in a new trial . . ."
697,God,God,PROPN,NNP,god.n.01,god.n.01,religion,god.n.01,original,the supernatural being conceived as the perfect and omnipotent and omniscient originator and ruler of the universe; the object of worship in monotheistic religions,,"['God', 'Supreme_Being']","Algeria is dead , the will of God be done . ”"
705,place,place,NOUN,NN,place.n.12,place.n.12,music,music.n.01,hyponyms,the passage that is being read,he lost his place on the page,['place'],In this morning ’s La Stampa I read : “ france has TURNED OVER ALL POWERS TO INDEPENDENT ALGERIA — WISDOM AND MODERATION OF THE ARABS — In the euphoria of victory the Arabs have managed to maintain their nerves in place ...
706,Moslems,Moslems,PROPN,NNPS,muslim.n.01,muslim.n.01,religion,islam.n.01,member_meronyms,a believer in or follower of Islam,,"['Muslim', 'Moslem']","So far there has been no sacking , nor vendettas , but only a massive requisitioning of private automobiles in which the Moslems ride through the streets exalting their newly acquired freedom . . ."
721,damage,damage,NOUN,NN,damage.n.03,damage.n.03,violence,damage.n.03,original,the act of damaging something or someone,,"['damage', 'harm', 'hurt', 'scathe']","The article appears in her weekly column , “ Chi Dice Donna , ” which title is borrowed from an old Italian proverb which goes , “ Chi dice donna , dice danno , ” or in English , “ Who says woman , says damage , ” or in American slang , “ Women mean trouble ! ”"
722,Suicide,Suicide,PROPN,NNP,suicide.n.01,suicide.n.01,violence,killing.n.02,hyponyms,the act of killing yourself,it is a crime to commit suicide,"['suicide', 'self-destruction', 'self-annihilation']","The article begins : The Suicide of Laura Laura , a friend of mine , has committed suicide ."
722,suicide,suicide,NOUN,NN,suicide.n.01,suicide.n.01,violence,killing.n.02,hyponyms,the act of killing yourself,it is a crime to commit suicide,"['suicide', 'self-destruction', 'self-annihilation']","The article begins : The Suicide of Laura Laura , a friend of mine , has committed suicide ."
730,gun,gun,NOUN,NN,gun.n.01,gun.n.01,violence,weapon.n.01,hyponyms,a weapon that discharges a missile at high velocity (especially from a metal tube or barrel),,['gun'],"I read in Paese Sera : “ Bloody vendetta of the OAS in Algeria — 100 dead and wounded in Oran — Oran , July 5 — This morning , shortly after noon , the center of Oran unexpectedly has been the center of a violent and bloody gun fight ."
732,shooting,shooting,NOUN,NN,shooting.n.02,shooting.n.02,violence,killing.n.02,hyponyms,killing someone by gunfire,when the shooting stopped there were three dead bodies,['shooting'],"The crowd that jammed the center of Oran , when the shooting began , around 12:10 Rome time , tried to find cover in doorways or threw itself down on streets and sidewalks in prey of panic ."
733,shooting,shooting,NOUN,NN,shooting.n.02,shooting.n.02,violence,killing.n.02,hyponyms,killing someone by gunfire,when the shooting stopped there were three dead bodies,['shooting'],For the moment there are no further details about the shooting nor is it known who started it .
734,shooting,shooting,NOUN,NN,shooting.n.02,shooting.n.02,violence,killing.n.02,hyponyms,killing someone by gunfire,when the shooting stopped there were three dead bodies,['shooting'],Units of the FLN took up positions in the downtown district soon after the shooting began .
737,killed,kill,VERB,VBD,kill.v.10,kill.v.10,violence,kill.v.10,original,"cause the death of, without intention",She was killed in the collision of three cars,['kill'],And yet I feel that it was just their emancipation that killed them .
744,resentment,resentment,NOUN,NN,resentment.n.01,resentment.n.01,violence,hate.n.01,hyponyms,a feeling of deep and bitter anger and ill-will,,"['resentment', 'bitterness', 'gall', 'rancor', 'rancour']","The angry resentment of the male against the emancipation of the woman is an anger , a rancor that pervades all Americans and Englishmen and not yet the Italians , because the dominating class in Italy still dom inates the woman who continues , in Italy , to be a slave , at least in the bourgeois classes ."
744,anger,anger,NOUN,NN,anger.n.01,anger.n.01,violence,anger.n.01,original,a strong emotion; a feeling that is oriented toward some real or supposed grievance,,"['anger', 'choler', 'ire']","The angry resentment of the male against the emancipation of the woman is an anger , a rancor that pervades all Americans and Englishmen and not yet the Italians , because the dominating class in Italy still dom inates the woman who continues , in Italy , to be a slave , at least in the bourgeois classes ."
744,rancor,rancor,NOUN,NN,resentment.n.01,resentment.n.01,violence,hate.n.01,hyponyms,a feeling of deep and bitter anger and ill-will,,"['resentment', 'bitterness', 'gall', 'rancor', 'rancour']","The angry resentment of the male against the emancipation of the woman is an anger , a rancor that pervades all Americans and Englishmen and not yet the Italians , because the dominating class in Italy still dom inates the woman who continues , in Italy , to be a slave , at least in the bourgeois classes ."
745,hate,hate,NOUN,NN,hate.n.01,hate.n.01,violence,hate.n.01,original,the emotion of intense dislike; a feeling of dislike so strong that it demands action,,"['hate', 'hatred']","In the proletariat this hate does not exist because as Engels says in his book , Origins of the Family , of Private Property and of the State , in the proletariat class “ true love ” has always existed since marriage as a contract of interests and as a means of passing on the paternal wealth to the sons has never had a reason to exist ."
750,kills,kill,VERB,VBZ,kill.v.10,kill.v.10,violence,kill.v.10,original,"cause the death of, without intention",She was killed in the collision of three cars,['kill'],To the contrary here there exist couples of persons who try to live emancipatedly in a society that kills them .
757,killing,kill,VERB,VBG,kill.v.01,kill.v.01,violence,kill.v.01,original,"cause to die; put to death, usually intentionally or knowingly",This man killed several people when he tried to rob a bank. The farmer killed a pig for the holidays,['kill'],In reality it is a slow and subtle form of killing one ’s woman and becoming “ King ” once again .
761,suicide,suicide,NOUN,NN,suicide.n.01,suicide.n.01,violence,killing.n.02,hyponyms,the act of killing yourself,it is a crime to commit suicide,"['suicide', 'self-destruction', 'self-annihilation']",My dear friend committed suicide .
763,killed,kill,VERB,VBN,kill.v.01,kill.v.01,violence,kill.v.01,original,"cause to die; put to death, usually intentionally or knowingly",This man killed several people when he tried to rob a bank. The farmer killed a pig for the holidays,['kill'],She had been killed even before she killed herself .
763,killed,kill,VERB,VBD,kill.v.01,kill.v.01,violence,kill.v.01,original,"cause to die; put to death, usually intentionally or knowingly",This man killed several people when he tried to rob a bank. The farmer killed a pig for the holidays,['kill'],She had been killed even before she killed herself .
765,wounded,wounded,ADJ,JJ,hurt.s.01,hurt.s.01,violence,hurt.s.01,original,suffering from physical injury especially that suffered in battle,nursing his wounded arm. ambulances...for the hurt men and women,"['hurt', 'wounded']","The vendetta of the wounded male , wounded because of failure , led him to kill that which he loved ."
765,kill,kill,VERB,VB,kill.v.05,kill.v.05,violence,kill.v.05,original,be the source of great pain for,These new shoes are killing me!,['kill'],"The vendetta of the wounded male , wounded because of failure , led him to kill that which he loved ."
771,God,God,PROPN,NNP,god.n.01,god.n.01,religion,god.n.01,original,the supernatural being conceived as the perfect and omnipotent and omniscient originator and ruler of the universe; the object of worship in monotheistic religions,,"['God', 'Supreme_Being']","I mean ... if God had n’t felt sorry for him and created Eve , what would he have done ? ”"
774,God,God,PROPN,NNP,god.n.01,god.n.01,religion,god.n.01,original,the supernatural being conceived as the perfect and omnipotent and omniscient originator and ruler of the universe; the object of worship in monotheistic religions,,"['God', 'Supreme_Being']",What kind of sex life do you think Adam had before God created Eve ? ”
812,suicide,suicide,NOUN,NN,suicide.n.01,suicide.n.01,violence,killing.n.02,hyponyms,the act of killing yourself,it is a crime to commit suicide,"['suicide', 'self-destruction', 'self-annihilation']",The poor girl commits suicide out of love and you write it all down in your book and probably’ll get rich and famous writing about other people ’s misery — ! ”
825,raped,rape,VERB,VBN,rape.v.01,rape.v.01,violence,assail.v.01,hyponyms,force (someone) to have sex against their will,The woman was raped on her way home at night,"['rape', 'ravish', 'violate', 'assault', 'dishonor', 'dishonour', 'outrage']",If you keep on talking like that you ’re going to end up getting raped .
848,hate,hate,VERB,VBP,hate.v.01,hate.v.01,violence,hate.v.01,original,dislike intensely; feel antipathy or aversion towards,I hate Mexican food. She detests politicians,"['hate', 'detest']",I hate the damned thing .
908,religion,religion,NOUN,NN,religion.n.02,religion.n.02,religion,religion.n.02,original,an institution to express belief in a divine power,he was raised in the Baptist religion. a member of his own faith contradicted him,"['religion', 'faith', 'organized_religion']",She ’s going to be the fountainhead of a new religion .
912,suicides,suicide,NOUN,NNS,suicide.n.01,suicide.n.01,violence,killing.n.02,hyponyms,the act of killing yourself,it is a crime to commit suicide,"['suicide', 'self-destruction', 'self-annihilation']",( other suicides and attempted suicides for the death of marilyn monroe .
912,suicides,suicide,NOUN,NNS,suicide.n.01,suicide.n.01,violence,killing.n.02,hyponyms,the act of killing yourself,it is a crime to commit suicide,"['suicide', 'self-destruction', 'self-annihilation']",( other suicides and attempted suicides for the death of marilyn monroe .
914,suicides,suicide,NOUN,NNS,suicide.n.01,suicide.n.01,violence,killing.n.02,hyponyms,the act of killing yourself,it is a crime to commit suicide,"['suicide', 'self-destruction', 'self-annihilation']",unfortunately the suicides or attempted suicides ‘ by imitation ’ continue .
914,suicides,suicide,NOUN,NNS,suicide.n.01,suicide.n.01,violence,killing.n.02,hyponyms,the act of killing yourself,it is a crime to commit suicide,"['suicide', 'self-destruction', 'self-annihilation']",unfortunately the suicides or attempted suicides ‘ by imitation ’ continue .
915,killed,kill,VERB,VBD,kill.v.01,kill.v.01,violence,kill.v.01,original,"cause to die; put to death, usually intentionally or knowingly",This man killed several people when he tried to rob a bank. The farmer killed a pig for the holidays,['kill'],"In just a few days a former actress in London , a former dancer and three teen - agers in San Francisco killed themselves ."
936,hate,hate,VERB,VBP,hate.v.01,hate.v.01,violence,hate.v.01,original,dislike intensely; feel antipathy or aversion towards,I hate Mexican food. She detests politicians,"['hate', 'detest']","I mean , most women hate Christ , hate the very guts of the . . ."
936,hate,hate,VERB,VBP,hate.v.01,hate.v.01,violence,hate.v.01,original,dislike intensely; feel antipathy or aversion towards,I hate Mexican food. She detests politicians,"['hate', 'detest']","I mean , most women hate Christ , hate the very guts of the . . ."
937,hate,hate,VERB,VBP,hate.v.01,hate.v.01,violence,hate.v.01,original,dislike intensely; feel antipathy or aversion towards,I hate Mexican food. She detests politicians,"['hate', 'detest']",they even hate the idea of Christ .. .
941,Christianity,Christianity,PROPN,NNP,christianity.n.01,christianity.n.01,religion,religion.n.01,hyponyms,a monotheistic system of beliefs and practices based on the Old Testament and the teachings of Jesus as embodied in the New Testament and emphasizing the role of Jesus as savior,,"['Christianity', 'Christian_religion']","I mean , for the first time in my life , I ’m digging Christianity ..."
946,metaphor,metaphor,NOUN,NN,metaphor.n.01,metaphor.n.01,music,music.n.01,hyponyms,a figure of speech in which an expression is used to refer to something that it does not literally denote in order to suggest a similarity,,['metaphor'],A metaphor of Marilyn Monroe on the Cross . . . ”
962,thrill,thrill,NOUN,NN,bang.n.04,bang.n.04,violence,bang.n.04,original,the swift release of a store of affective force,they got a great bang out of it. what a boot!. he got a quick rush from injecting heroin. he does it for kicks,"['bang', 'boot', 'charge', 'rush', 'flush', 'thrill', 'kick']",With one eye and one ear always spying on me to see if I ’m getting a thrill .
967,notes,note,NOUN,NNS,note.n.03,note.n.03,music,music.n.01,member_meronyms,a notation representing the pitch and duration of a musical sound,the singer held the note too long,"['note', 'musical_note', 'tone']",Put all the notes together and what do you get — the apocryphal gospel of Marilynmonroe - anity !
985,hate,hate,VERB,VBP,hate.v.01,hate.v.01,violence,hate.v.01,original,dislike intensely; feel antipathy or aversion towards,I hate Mexican food. She detests politicians,"['hate', 'detest']","‘ Oh , I hate to see , that evenin ’ sun go down . . . ’"
990,hate,hate,VERB,VBP,hate.v.01,hate.v.01,violence,hate.v.01,original,dislike intensely; feel antipathy or aversion towards,I hate Mexican food. She detests politicians,"['hate', 'detest']","‘ I hate to see , that evenin ’ sun go down . . . ’"
995,dancing,dancing,NOUN,NN,dancing.n.01,dancing.n.01,music,dancing.n.01,original,taking a series of rhythmical steps (and movements) in time to music,,"['dancing', 'dance', 'terpsichore', 'saltation']","Aside from the fact — ” “ Aside from the fact that she was a Negro , you ’re proud to say that one of our own happy high - dancing race had the moral courage to take her own life !"
1009,tone,tone,NOUN,NN,tone.n.01,tone.n.01,music,music.n.01,hyponyms,the quality of a person's voice,he began in a conversational tone. he spoke in a nervous tone of voice,"['tone', 'tone_of_voice']",And stop using that sarcastic tone of voice every time you mention my wife ! ”
1010,hate,hate,VERB,VBP,hate.v.01,hate.v.01,violence,hate.v.01,original,dislike intensely; feel antipathy or aversion towards,I hate Mexican food. She detests politicians,"['hate', 'detest']","“ ‘ Oh , I hate to see , that evenin ’ sun go down . . . ’"
1024,Cult,Cult,PROPN,NNP,cult.n.03,cult.n.03,religion,religion.n.02,hyponyms,"followers of an unorthodox, extremist, or false religion or sect who often live outside of conventional society under the direction of a charismatic leader",,['cult'],"“ Go right ahead , High Priestess of the Marilyn Monroe Cult ."
1042,temple,temple,NOUN,NN,temple.n.01,temple.n.01,religion,temple.n.01,original,place of worship consisting of an edifice for the worship of a deity,,['temple'],"It just occurred to me that in ancient Egypt , the priests of the temple wore jackal heads ."
1045,opera,opera,NOUN,NN,opera.n.01,opera.n.01,music,music.n.01,hyponyms,a drama set to music; consists of singing with orchestral accompaniment and an orchestral overture and interludes,,['opera'],"This morning when I was waiting for you at Rosati ’s , a strange man sitting at the table next to mine , with a dog and a Chinese woman , asked me if I liked Dante and if I ’d seen the performance of Aida at the outdoor opera last night ."
1065,Iambs,Iambs,PROPN,NNP,iamb.n.01,iamb.n.01,music,music.n.01,hyponyms,a metrical unit with unstressed-stressed syllables,,"['iamb', 'iambus']","The moon is full , a fierce white pendulum suspended over the quiet sea and restless clouds that swarm close to the earth like vaguely frightened Iambs ."
1074,Catholic,Catholic,PROPN,NNP,catholic.n.01,catholic.n.01,religion,religion.n.02,member_meronyms,a member of a Catholic church,,['Catholic'],"A festival in honor of the miraculous translation of the uncorrupted body of the Virgin Mary to heaven by Christ and His angels at her death , observed by the Roman Catholic and Eastern Orthodox churches on August 15 ."
1074,churches,church,NOUN,NNS,church_service.n.01,church_service.n.01,religion,church_service.n.01,original,a service conducted in a house of worship,don't be late for church,"['church_service', 'church']","A festival in honor of the miraculous translation of the uncorrupted body of the Virgin Mary to heaven by Christ and His angels at her death , observed by the Roman Catholic and Eastern Orthodox churches on August 15 ."
1075,music,music,NOUN,NN,music.n.02,music.n.02,music,music.n.02,original,any agreeable (pleasing and harmonious) sounds,he fell asleep to the music of the wind chimes,"['music', 'euphony']","The Russian astronauts hear a sound like music , faint but near , there is a passing scent of perfume ."
1111,thrill,thrill,NOUN,NN,bang.n.04,bang.n.04,violence,bang.n.04,original,the swift release of a store of affective force,they got a great bang out of it. what a boot!. he got a quick rush from injecting heroin. he does it for kicks,"['bang', 'boot', 'charge', 'rush', 'flush', 'thrill', 'kick']","Who would n’t get hysterical making love with a goddamn writer , always spying on her to see what a thrill she ’s getting , always making notes ? ”"
1129,hate,hate,VERB,VBP,hate.v.01,hate.v.01,violence,hate.v.01,original,dislike intensely; feel antipathy or aversion towards,I hate Mexican food. She detests politicians,"['hate', 'detest']",I hate this place !
1130,hate,hate,VERB,VBP,hate.v.01,hate.v.01,violence,hate.v.01,original,dislike intensely; feel antipathy or aversion towards,I hate Mexican food. She detests politicians,"['hate', 'detest']",I hate Italy !
1150,mandolin,mandolin,NOUN,NN,mandolin.n.01,mandolin.n.01,music,musical_instrument.n.01,hyponyms,"a stringed instrument related to the lute, usually played with a plectrum",,['mandolin'],"But the next day , in the Bay of Naples , the moon is full and freshly minted ; as we return to Rome , the deadly gray steel of the atomic aircraft carrier , the Enterprise , anchored in the full moon — Vesuvius , Santa Lucia and mandolin fireworks , Bay of Naples : deadly gray steel ."
1155,deadly,deadly,ADJ,JJ,deadly.s.04,deadly.s.04,religion,theology.n.01,in_topic_domains,involving loss of divine grace or spiritual death,the seven deadly sins,"['deadly', 'mortal']","Crisp in his freshly laundered uniform , a gigantic black American Negro sailor with aristocratic , kingly nonchalance shows his pass to the SP guard at the gate and saunters over to the waiting launch that will take him to the deadly beautiful steel shark - whale presiding over the full moon night of Naples , Pedigrotta and songs and the blood miracle of St. Gennaro ."
1155,songs,song,NOUN,NNS,song.n.03,song.n.03,music,music.n.01,hyponyms,the act of singing,with a shout and a song they marched up to the gates,"['song', 'strain']","Crisp in his freshly laundered uniform , a gigantic black American Negro sailor with aristocratic , kingly nonchalance shows his pass to the SP guard at the gate and saunters over to the waiting launch that will take him to the deadly beautiful steel shark - whale presiding over the full moon night of Naples , Pedigrotta and songs and the blood miracle of St. Gennaro ."
1157,tone,tone,NOUN,NN,tone.n.01,tone.n.01,music,music.n.01,hyponyms,the quality of a person's voice,he began in a conversational tone. he spoke in a nervous tone of voice,"['tone', 'tone_of_voice']","And Alex , at 10:00 p.m. says , his tone condescending to better absorb the meaning of 10:00 p.m. intrusion : “ In Naples ?"
1160,sister,sister,NOUN,NN,sister.n.02,sister.n.02,religion,religion.n.02,in_topic_domains,(Roman Catholic Church) a title given to a nun (and used as a form of address),the Sisters taught her to love God,['Sister'],"( The Count , as he paces to and fro , building up steam for the Terrible Quarrel which is about to take place here in this tiny apartment which he has rented for Doris , his mistress , thinks now of his sister who is a nun in the Congo ; the Count thinks of his father who was an amateur explorer in Africa , his father who is dead while his sister , the nun , is alive . )"
1160,sister,sister,NOUN,NN,sister.n.02,sister.n.02,religion,religion.n.02,in_topic_domains,(Roman Catholic Church) a title given to a nun (and used as a form of address),the Sisters taught her to love God,['Sister'],"( The Count , as he paces to and fro , building up steam for the Terrible Quarrel which is about to take place here in this tiny apartment which he has rented for Doris , his mistress , thinks now of his sister who is a nun in the Congo ; the Count thinks of his father who was an amateur explorer in Africa , his father who is dead while his sister , the nun , is alive . )"
1164,wound,wound,NOUN,NN,wound.n.01,wound.n.01,violence,injury.n.01,hyponyms,an injury to living tissue (especially an injury involving a cut or break in the skin),,"['wound', 'lesion']","Says Epoca : “ Before succumbing to the horrible wound , Maurizio Sarra , the champion lung diver killed by a shark in the waters off the coast of Circeo , shouted , ‘ Go away , cursed Death ! ’ ”"
1164,killed,kill,VERB,VBN,kill.v.05,kill.v.05,violence,kill.v.05,original,be the source of great pain for,These new shoes are killing me!,['kill'],"Says Epoca : “ Before succumbing to the horrible wound , Maurizio Sarra , the champion lung diver killed by a shark in the waters off the coast of Circeo , shouted , ‘ Go away , cursed Death ! ’ ”"
1172,sing,sing,VERB,VB,whistle.v.05,whistle.v.05,music,whistle.v.05,original,"make a whining, ringing, or whistling sound",the kettle was singing. the bullet sang past his ear,"['whistle', 'sing']","She stops halfway up the stairs after the second - floor landing , where there is an open window that opens onto the courtyard and a junglelike garden and a palm tree with waxy green leaves thirsting greedily after the first cold rays of the morning sun ; four cats like a gang of teenagers stalk across the courtyard with their tails obscenely raised ; looking out the window , out over the courtyard where from the checkerboard of open windows , on a warm summer day , maids and lonely housewives spy on the handsome plumber ’s apprentice and sometimes sing their songs of longing and loneliness , Doris takes a small mirror from her purse and a gold - enclosed tube of lipstick and paints her pouting lips ."
1172,songs,song,NOUN,NNS,song.n.03,song.n.03,music,music.n.01,hyponyms,the act of singing,with a shout and a song they marched up to the gates,"['song', 'strain']","She stops halfway up the stairs after the second - floor landing , where there is an open window that opens onto the courtyard and a junglelike garden and a palm tree with waxy green leaves thirsting greedily after the first cold rays of the morning sun ; four cats like a gang of teenagers stalk across the courtyard with their tails obscenely raised ; looking out the window , out over the courtyard where from the checkerboard of open windows , on a warm summer day , maids and lonely housewives spy on the handsome plumber ’s apprentice and sometimes sing their songs of longing and loneliness , Doris takes a small mirror from her purse and a gold - enclosed tube of lipstick and paints her pouting lips ."
1190,dance,dance,VERB,VB,dance.v.02,dance.v.02,music,dancing.n.01,in_topic_domains,move in a pattern; usually to musical accompaniment; do or perform a dance,My husband and I like to dance at home to the radio,"['dance', 'trip_the_light_fantastic', 'trip_the_light_fantastic_toe']",Then everyone got up to dance the Hully Gully .
1192,dance,dance,NOUN,NN,dance.n.01,dance.n.01,music,dance.n.01,original,an artistic form of nonverbal communication,,['dance'],"And there was a terrifying sadness to this dance of the Hully Gully , the pale American Negroes ( and “ Doris ” ) dancing a parody of minstrel joy : How sad this sight !"
1192,dancing,dance,VERB,VBG,dance.v.02,dance.v.02,music,dancing.n.01,in_topic_domains,move in a pattern; usually to musical accompaniment; do or perform a dance,My husband and I like to dance at home to the radio,"['dance', 'trip_the_light_fantastic', 'trip_the_light_fantastic_toe']","And there was a terrifying sadness to this dance of the Hully Gully , the pale American Negroes ( and “ Doris ” ) dancing a parody of minstrel joy : How sad this sight !"
1201,dance,dance,NOUN,NN,dance.n.01,dance.n.01,music,dance.n.01,original,an artistic form of nonverbal communication,,['dance'],"And T. only laughs and says — rising as if on cue , and a few blond girls and wan young men doing this absurd Hully Gully dance , like drugged monkeys performing at a county fair on a hot rainy day : It is not true that we Negroes like to dance . . ."
1201,dance,dance,VERB,VB,dance.v.02,dance.v.02,music,dancing.n.01,in_topic_domains,move in a pattern; usually to musical accompaniment; do or perform a dance,My husband and I like to dance at home to the radio,"['dance', 'trip_the_light_fantastic', 'trip_the_light_fantastic_toe']","And T. only laughs and says — rising as if on cue , and a few blond girls and wan young men doing this absurd Hully Gully dance , like drugged monkeys performing at a county fair on a hot rainy day : It is not true that we Negroes like to dance . . ."
1202,dance,dance,VERB,VB,dance.v.02,dance.v.02,music,dancing.n.01,in_topic_domains,move in a pattern; usually to musical accompaniment; do or perform a dance,My husband and I like to dance at home to the radio,"['dance', 'trip_the_light_fantastic', 'trip_the_light_fantastic_toe']",Then why do we dance ?
1232,kill,kill,VERB,VB,kill.v.01,kill.v.01,violence,kill.v.01,original,"cause to die; put to death, usually intentionally or knowingly",This man killed several people when he tried to rob a bank. The farmer killed a pig for the holidays,['kill'],Three hours ago I said I ’d kill you when you came home .
1305,Cardinal,Cardinal,PROPN,NNP,cardinal.n.01,cardinal.n.01,religion,religion.n.02,hyponyms,(Roman Catholic Church) one of a group of more than 100 prominent bishops in the Sacred College who advise the Pope and elect new Popes,,['cardinal'],The statue is slated to be shipped to America for the 1964 World ’s Fair at the request of Cardinal Francis Spellman . . . ”
1308,introduction,introduction,NOUN,NN,introduction.n.02,introduction.n.02,music,music.n.01,hyponyms,the first section of a communication,,['introduction'],This is the introduction I wrote : Losavio Does the sun ’s ray penetrate to the mother ’s womb where the drama of birth is taking place ?
1308,drama,drama,NOUN,NN,play.n.01,play.n.01,music,music.n.01,in_topic_domains,a dramatic work intended for performance by actors on a stage,he wrote several plays but only one was produced on Broadway,"['play', 'drama', 'dramatic_play']",This is the introduction I wrote : Losavio Does the sun ’s ray penetrate to the mother ’s womb where the drama of birth is taking place ?
1308,place,place,NOUN,NN,place.n.12,place.n.12,music,music.n.01,hyponyms,the passage that is being read,he lost his place on the page,['place'],This is the introduction I wrote : Losavio Does the sun ’s ray penetrate to the mother ’s womb where the drama of birth is taking place ?
1309,Creation,creation,NOUN,NN,genesis_creation_narrative.n.01,genesis_creation_narrative.n.01,religion,theology.n.01,in_topic_domains,(theology) God's act of bringing the universe into existence,,"['Genesis_creation_narrative', 'Creation']",Do the invisible rays of atomic radiation penetrate the stone and concrete shelter where Adam and Eve reenact the drama of Creation ?
1311,church,church,NOUN,NN,church.n.02,church.n.02,religion,church.n.02,original,a place for public (especially Christian) worship,the church was empty,"['church', 'church_building']","Enclosed in a room , church or museum , house or castle , they influence one another — condition one another ’s existence ( just as the “ animate objects , ” the human members of a family , influence one another , condition one another ’s existence , in a house or in a castle ) ."
1312,dramas,drama,NOUN,NNS,play.n.01,play.n.01,music,music.n.01,in_topic_domains,a dramatic work intended for performance by actors on a stage,he wrote several plays but only one was produced on Broadway,"['play', 'drama', 'dramatic_play']","This is Losavio ’s discovery : my plastic dramas , dramas of Light and Space , must not be influenced by , conditioned by , other objects , “ animate ” or “ inanimate , ” in the place where they shall come to rest . . ."
1312,dramas,drama,NOUN,NNS,play.n.01,play.n.01,music,music.n.01,in_topic_domains,a dramatic work intended for performance by actors on a stage,he wrote several plays but only one was produced on Broadway,"['play', 'drama', 'dramatic_play']","This is Losavio ’s discovery : my plastic dramas , dramas of Light and Space , must not be influenced by , conditioned by , other objects , “ animate ” or “ inanimate , ” in the place where they shall come to rest . . ."
1314,dramas,drama,NOUN,NNS,play.n.01,play.n.01,music,music.n.01,in_topic_domains,a dramatic work intended for performance by actors on a stage,he wrote several plays but only one was produced on Broadway,"['play', 'drama', 'dramatic_play']","My plastic dramas , dramas of Birth and Creation , of Light and Space , must not be conditioned or influenced by any drama other than the drama of the movement of the sun : Even when you , the Spectator , shall walk all around the world I have created — even when you inarticulate Spectators , tables and chairs and other works of art , shall transmit your vibrations — my plastic dramas , my dramas of Birth and Creation , of Light and Space , shall unfold in a spatial silence of my fabrication ."
1314,dramas,drama,NOUN,NNS,play.n.01,play.n.01,music,music.n.01,in_topic_domains,a dramatic work intended for performance by actors on a stage,he wrote several plays but only one was produced on Broadway,"['play', 'drama', 'dramatic_play']","My plastic dramas , dramas of Birth and Creation , of Light and Space , must not be conditioned or influenced by any drama other than the drama of the movement of the sun : Even when you , the Spectator , shall walk all around the world I have created — even when you inarticulate Spectators , tables and chairs and other works of art , shall transmit your vibrations — my plastic dramas , my dramas of Birth and Creation , of Light and Space , shall unfold in a spatial silence of my fabrication ."
1314,drama,drama,NOUN,NN,play.n.01,play.n.01,music,music.n.01,in_topic_domains,a dramatic work intended for performance by actors on a stage,he wrote several plays but only one was produced on Broadway,"['play', 'drama', 'dramatic_play']","My plastic dramas , dramas of Birth and Creation , of Light and Space , must not be conditioned or influenced by any drama other than the drama of the movement of the sun : Even when you , the Spectator , shall walk all around the world I have created — even when you inarticulate Spectators , tables and chairs and other works of art , shall transmit your vibrations — my plastic dramas , my dramas of Birth and Creation , of Light and Space , shall unfold in a spatial silence of my fabrication ."
1314,drama,drama,NOUN,NN,play.n.01,play.n.01,music,music.n.01,in_topic_domains,a dramatic work intended for performance by actors on a stage,he wrote several plays but only one was produced on Broadway,"['play', 'drama', 'dramatic_play']","My plastic dramas , dramas of Birth and Creation , of Light and Space , must not be conditioned or influenced by any drama other than the drama of the movement of the sun : Even when you , the Spectator , shall walk all around the world I have created — even when you inarticulate Spectators , tables and chairs and other works of art , shall transmit your vibrations — my plastic dramas , my dramas of Birth and Creation , of Light and Space , shall unfold in a spatial silence of my fabrication ."
1314,dramas,drama,NOUN,NNS,play.n.01,play.n.01,music,music.n.01,in_topic_domains,a dramatic work intended for performance by actors on a stage,he wrote several plays but only one was produced on Broadway,"['play', 'drama', 'dramatic_play']","My plastic dramas , dramas of Birth and Creation , of Light and Space , must not be conditioned or influenced by any drama other than the drama of the movement of the sun : Even when you , the Spectator , shall walk all around the world I have created — even when you inarticulate Spectators , tables and chairs and other works of art , shall transmit your vibrations — my plastic dramas , my dramas of Birth and Creation , of Light and Space , shall unfold in a spatial silence of my fabrication ."
1314,dramas,drama,NOUN,NNS,play.n.01,play.n.01,music,music.n.01,in_topic_domains,a dramatic work intended for performance by actors on a stage,he wrote several plays but only one was produced on Broadway,"['play', 'drama', 'dramatic_play']","My plastic dramas , dramas of Birth and Creation , of Light and Space , must not be conditioned or influenced by any drama other than the drama of the movement of the sun : Even when you , the Spectator , shall walk all around the world I have created — even when you inarticulate Spectators , tables and chairs and other works of art , shall transmit your vibrations — my plastic dramas , my dramas of Birth and Creation , of Light and Space , shall unfold in a spatial silence of my fabrication ."
1320,weapons,weapon,NOUN,NNS,weapon.n.01,weapon.n.01,violence,weapon.n.01,original,any instrument or instrumentality used in fighting or hunting,he was licensed to carry a weapon,"['weapon', 'arm', 'weapon_system']",u.s . bars weapons TO CUBA . . .
1323,BISHOPS,bishops,NOUN,NN,bishop.n.01,bishop.n.01,religion,religion.n.02,in_topic_domains,a senior member of the Christian clergy having spiritual and administrative authority; appointed in Christian churches to oversee priests or ministers; considered in some churches to be successors of the twelve Apostles of Christ,,['bishop'],61 AFRICAN BISHOPS UNITE ON LITURGY . . .
1344,Fathers,Fathers,PROPN,NNPS,church_father.n.01,church_father.n.01,religion,religion.n.01,in_topic_domains,"(Christianity) any of about 70 theologians in the period from the 2nd to the 7th century whose writing established and confirmed official church doctrine; in the Roman Catholic Church some were later declared saints and became Doctor of the Church; the best known Latin Church Fathers are Ambrose, Augustine, Gregory the Great, and Jerome; those who wrote in Greek include Athanasius, Basil, Gregory Nazianzen, and John Chrysostom",,"['Church_Father', 'Father_of_the_Church', 'Father']","So before I go to Paris where I have already been ( Today is October 30 , war over Cuba has been miraculously averted , the Concilio proceeds , three Fathers have died , the African bishops want to know , as problems of liturgy assume increasing and perhaps fundamental importance , why the Devil is black and angels are white , an English writer and his wife who in Kenya had been threatened by the Mau Mau were mysteriously murdered in Sardegna where they had planned to buy a piece of land )"
1344,bishops,bishop,NOUN,NNS,bishop.n.01,bishop.n.01,religion,religion.n.02,in_topic_domains,a senior member of the Christian clergy having spiritual and administrative authority; appointed in Christian churches to oversee priests or ministers; considered in some churches to be successors of the twelve Apostles of Christ,,['bishop'],"So before I go to Paris where I have already been ( Today is October 30 , war over Cuba has been miraculously averted , the Concilio proceeds , three Fathers have died , the African bishops want to know , as problems of liturgy assume increasing and perhaps fundamental importance , why the Devil is black and angels are white , an English writer and his wife who in Kenya had been threatened by the Mau Mau were mysteriously murdered in Sardegna where they had planned to buy a piece of land )"
1344,Devil,Devil,PROPN,NNP,satan.n.01,satan.n.01,religion,religion.n.01,in_topic_domains,(Judeo-Christian and Islamic religions) chief spirit of evil and adversary of God; tempter of mankind; master of Hell,,"['Satan', 'Old_Nick', 'Devil', 'Lucifer', 'Beelzebub', 'the_Tempter', 'Prince_of_Darkness']","So before I go to Paris where I have already been ( Today is October 30 , war over Cuba has been miraculously averted , the Concilio proceeds , three Fathers have died , the African bishops want to know , as problems of liturgy assume increasing and perhaps fundamental importance , why the Devil is black and angels are white , an English writer and his wife who in Kenya had been threatened by the Mau Mau were mysteriously murdered in Sardegna where they had planned to buy a piece of land )"
1377,swords,sword,NOUN,NNS,sword.n.01,sword.n.01,violence,weapon.n.01,hyponyms,a cutting or thrusting weapon that has a long metal blade and a hilt with a hand guard,,"['sword', 'blade', 'brand', 'steel']","Symbolic swords instead of typewriters ( how happy I was to see a news photograph of John Steinbeck , who had just won the Nobel Prize for literature , seated behind an IBM typewriter like mine , which , with the quietly efficient hum of its electric motor , has always given me the feeling of power of sitting at the controls of some advanced model of a Sherman tank ) ."
1380,killed,kill,VERB,VBN,kill.v.01,kill.v.01,violence,kill.v.01,original,"cause to die; put to death, usually intentionally or knowingly",This man killed several people when he tried to rob a bank. The farmer killed a pig for the holidays,['kill'],The old wars killed .
1382,animus,animus,NOUN,NN,animosity.n.01,animosity.n.01,violence,hate.n.01,hyponyms,a feeling of ill will arousing active hostility,,"['animosity', 'animus', 'bad_blood']","There are no dead but the death of the animus of the people , of the nation , is wanted . .. ”"
1388,Creation,creation,NOUN,NN,genesis_creation_narrative.n.01,genesis_creation_narrative.n.01,religion,theology.n.01,in_topic_domains,(theology) God's act of bringing the universe into existence,,"['Genesis_creation_narrative', 'Creation']",Do the invisible rays of atomic radiation penetrate the stone and concrete shelter where Adam and Eve reenact the drama of Creation ? ...
1396,Crooner,Crooner,PROPN,NNP,crooner.n.01,crooner.n.01,music,musician.n.01,hyponyms,a singer of popular ballads,,"['crooner', 'balladeer']","But today is November 8 , 1962 , and I read in this week ’s issue of Time magazine : “ ‘ This is a radical step in what I hope is the right direction , ’ explained Crooner Pat Boone , 28 , heretofore always the Mr. Clean of the movie business ."
1404,killed,kill,VERB,VBD,kill.v.01,kill.v.01,violence,kill.v.01,original,"cause to die; put to death, usually intentionally or knowingly",This man killed several people when he tried to rob a bank. The farmer killed a pig for the holidays,['kill'],"In Momento - Sera I read : “ Robert Weaver , Jr. , son of Robert C. Weaver , killed himself shooting himself in the forehead with a pistol ."
1404,pistol,pistol,NOUN,NN,pistol.n.01,pistol.n.01,violence,weapon.n.01,hyponyms,a firearm that is held and fired with one hand,,"['pistol', 'handgun', 'side_arm', 'shooting_iron']","In Momento - Sera I read : “ Robert Weaver , Jr. , son of Robert C. Weaver , killed himself shooting himself in the forehead with a pistol ."
1428,dancing,dance,VERB,VBG,dance.v.02,dance.v.02,music,dancing.n.01,in_topic_domains,move in a pattern; usually to musical accompaniment; do or perform a dance,My husband and I like to dance at home to the radio,"['dance', 'trip_the_light_fantastic', 'trip_the_light_fantastic_toe']","I stopped dancing long ago , when work on Cleopatra ended ( and what a blown - up phony experience that was , worse even than what the newspapers said , like the Last Days of Pompeii or something , no kidding it was weird ."
1431,hell,hell,NOUN,NN,hell.n.03,hell.n.03,religion,religion.n.01,in_topic_domains,(Christianity) the abode of Satan and the forces of evil; where sinners suffer eternal punishment;  - John Milton; ;  - Dr. Johnson,"Hurl'd headlong...To bottomless perdition, there to dwell. a demon from the depths of the pit. Hell is paved with good intentions","['Hell', 'perdition', 'Inferno', 'infernal_region', 'nether_region', 'pit']",Now who in the hell is Ronnie Lenton ?
1478,Cardinal,Cardinal,PROPN,NNP,cardinal.n.01,cardinal.n.01,religion,religion.n.02,hyponyms,(Roman Catholic Church) one of a group of more than 100 prominent bishops in the Sacred College who advise the Pope and elect new Popes,,['cardinal'],"Then I realized they were going to kiss the ring of that African Cardinal , I forget now what his name is , but anyway he ’s the first African Cardinal in the history of the Catholic Church and he ’s here in Rome for the Con - cilio ."
1478,Cardinal,Cardinal,PROPN,NNP,cardinal.n.01,cardinal.n.01,religion,religion.n.02,hyponyms,(Roman Catholic Church) one of a group of more than 100 prominent bishops in the Sacred College who advise the Pope and elect new Popes,,['cardinal'],"Then I realized they were going to kiss the ring of that African Cardinal , I forget now what his name is , but anyway he ’s the first African Cardinal in the history of the Catholic Church and he ’s here in Rome for the Con - cilio ."
1478,Catholic,Catholic,PROPN,NNP,catholic.n.01,catholic.n.01,religion,religion.n.02,member_meronyms,a member of a Catholic church,,['Catholic'],"Then I realized they were going to kiss the ring of that African Cardinal , I forget now what his name is , but anyway he ’s the first African Cardinal in the history of the Catholic Church and he ’s here in Rome for the Con - cilio ."
1478,Church,Church,PROPN,NNP,church.n.04,church.n.04,religion,church.n.04,original,the body of people who attend or belong to a particular local church,our church is hosting a picnic next week,['church'],"Then I realized they were going to kiss the ring of that African Cardinal , I forget now what his name is , but anyway he ’s the first African Cardinal in the history of the Catholic Church and he ’s here in Rome for the Con - cilio ."
1480,Cardinal,Cardinal,PROPN,NNP,cardinal.n.01,cardinal.n.01,religion,religion.n.02,hyponyms,(Roman Catholic Church) one of a group of more than 100 prominent bishops in the Sacred College who advise the Pope and elect new Popes,,['cardinal'],"And you can well imagine how he , the Cardinal , reacted — his eyeballs popped out and he half stood up and said , “ You ’re a disgrace to your race ! ”"
1481,Pope,Pope,PROPN,NNP,pope.n.01,pope.n.01,religion,religion.n.02,hyponyms,the head of the Roman Catholic Church,,"['pope', 'Catholic_Pope', 'Roman_Catholic_Pope', 'pontiff', 'Holy_Father', 'Vicar_of_Christ', 'Bishop_of_Rome']","Then he called the Vatican guards and they dragged me away , and just before I woke up the Pope shook his head sadly"
1483,Cardinal,Cardinal,PROPN,NNP,cardinal.n.01,cardinal.n.01,religion,religion.n.02,hyponyms,(Roman Catholic Church) one of a group of more than 100 prominent bishops in the Sacred College who advise the Pope and elect new Popes,,['cardinal'],The African Cardinal ’s name is Cardinal Rugambwa — I just saw a picture of him in a magazine sitting on a throne and a lot of schoolgirls standing in line waiting to kiss his ring .
1483,Cardinal,Cardinal,PROPN,NNP,cardinal.n.01,cardinal.n.01,religion,religion.n.02,hyponyms,(Roman Catholic Church) one of a group of more than 100 prominent bishops in the Sacred College who advise the Pope and elect new Popes,,['cardinal'],The African Cardinal ’s name is Cardinal Rugambwa — I just saw a picture of him in a magazine sitting on a throne and a lot of schoolgirls standing in line waiting to kiss his ring .
1497,Weird,Weird,PROPN,NNP,wyrd.n.01,wyrd.n.01,religion,deity.n.01,hyponyms,fate personified; any one of the three Weird Sisters,,"['Wyrd', 'Weird']","Weird , really weird !"
1505,Cardinal,Cardinal,PROPN,NNP,cardinal.n.01,cardinal.n.01,religion,religion.n.02,hyponyms,(Roman Catholic Church) one of a group of more than 100 prominent bishops in the Sacred College who advise the Pope and elect new Popes,,['cardinal'],"But not only race relations between colored people and white people ( apart from the African Cardinal , they made a South American colored man a saint and they ’re thinking of using Negro spirituals and tom toms in the celebration of the mass ) but race relations between men and women ."
1505,saint,saint,NOUN,NN,saint.n.01,saint.n.01,religion,deity.n.01,hyponyms,a person who has died and has been declared a saint by canonization,,['saint'],"But not only race relations between colored people and white people ( apart from the African Cardinal , they made a South American colored man a saint and they ’re thinking of using Negro spirituals and tom toms in the celebration of the mass ) but race relations between men and women ."
1505,spirituals,spiritual,NOUN,NNS,spiritual.n.01,spiritual.n.01,music,music.n.01,hyponyms,a kind of religious song originated by Blacks in the southern United States,,"['spiritual', 'Negro_spiritual']","But not only race relations between colored people and white people ( apart from the African Cardinal , they made a South American colored man a saint and they ’re thinking of using Negro spirituals and tom toms in the celebration of the mass ) but race relations between men and women ."
1505,mass,mass,NOUN,NN,mass.n.04,mass.n.04,religion,religion.n.02,in_topic_domains,(Roman Catholic Church and Protestant Churches) the celebration of the Eucharist,,['Mass'],"But not only race relations between colored people and white people ( apart from the African Cardinal , they made a South American colored man a saint and they ’re thinking of using Negro spirituals and tom toms in the celebration of the mass ) but race relations between men and women ."
1506,mass,mass,NOUN,NN,mass.n.04,mass.n.04,religion,religion.n.02,in_topic_domains,(Roman Catholic Church and Protestant Churches) the celebration of the Eucharist,,['Mass'],"For example , they never mention Jesus ’ father ’s name in the mass ."
1513,hate,hate,VERB,VBP,hate.v.01,hate.v.01,violence,hate.v.01,original,dislike intensely; feel antipathy or aversion towards,I hate Mexican food. She detests politicians,"['hate', 'detest']",How I hate these menstruating blues !
1530,sister,sister,NOUN,NN,sister.n.02,sister.n.02,religion,religion.n.02,in_topic_domains,(Roman Catholic Church) a title given to a nun (and used as a form of address),the Sisters taught her to love God,['Sister'],He said his sister was a nun in the Congo and that his father had been a famous explorer in Ethiopia and Kenya .
1536,Bishop,Bishop,PROPN,NNP,bishop.n.01,bishop.n.01,religion,religion.n.02,in_topic_domains,a senior member of the Christian clergy having spiritual and administrative authority; appointed in Christian churches to oversee priests or ministers; considered in some churches to be successors of the twelve Apostles of Christ,,['bishop'],"Leonardo laughs as Lazarus laughed : “ What is , can become , is and is not , on what side of the looking glass are you ? "" "" Venus ’ earthly ambassador is not Andre Malraux , but Hitler ’s bastard son , exiled from Italy though Kennedy shall come : Kennedy a roma entro l’anno — caloroso ( angry is the sea , and lusty Europe for several weeks now has been wearing woolen undies and tongue - shined mink — cold wave to continue for another month British meteorologists claim — cafe chatter of colors , temperature , bees and honey , spiders , dwarfs , the stairs of St. Peter ’s , stairs leading to the vaults , stairs leading to the sun - peeking hole , the obelisk shipped from Egypt and erected in St. Peter ’s square by a crazy heretic proconsul Gaul , a stubborn blaze smoldered through the 102 - story Empire State Building , the sex secretion perfume of 8,000 moths drives caged male moths mad and causes them to perform indecent acts among themselves , no babies born , silk and leather , wool and soap , Chamberlain of the Secret Chamber , Boy Bishop , Magistrate of Dwarfs , cancer , one last fling with boy - meets - girl - let’s - run- off - to - the - SUNLAND - Sicily - or - Waikiki - Beach , throw him to the sharks ; and this I said to my wife before going to sleep : unless human beings , DESCENDED FROM ONE MONKEY OR DIFFERENT MONKEYS , GESTURES OR INTELLIGIBLE SPEECH , LEARN TO SPEAK TO fish and animals and possibly creatures or beings OR anti - BODiEs from outer and inner space , they have LITTLE CHANCE OF SURVIVING THE RACE , THE HUMAN race ! ) ."
1555,sang,sing,VERB,VBD,sing.v.01,sing.v.01,music,music.n.01,hyponyms,deliver by singing,Sing Christmas carols,['sing'],"On Christmas Eve , December 24 , 1962 , or was it December 25,1 mean , as I remember , it was almost or after midnight , the Count rang the doorbell and said he was putting off going home for Christmas until the next morning because he could n’t bear the idea of me spending Christmas Eve all by myself , I was waiting for the operator to put my call through to New York , I wanted to say Merry Christmas to my mother , he had a bottle of champagne , he cried a little bit and we sang Christmas carols , Silent Night , said he wanted to marry me , come what may ( me a countess ! )"
1555,carols,carol,NOUN,NNS,carol.n.01,carol.n.01,music,music.n.01,hyponyms,joyful religious song celebrating the birth of Christ,,"['carol', 'Christmas_carol']","On Christmas Eve , December 24 , 1962 , or was it December 25,1 mean , as I remember , it was almost or after midnight , the Count rang the doorbell and said he was putting off going home for Christmas until the next morning because he could n’t bear the idea of me spending Christmas Eve all by myself , I was waiting for the operator to put my call through to New York , I wanted to say Merry Christmas to my mother , he had a bottle of champagne , he cried a little bit and we sang Christmas carols , Silent Night , said he wanted to marry me , come what may ( me a countess ! )"
1556,Mass,Mass,PROPN,NNP,mass.n.04,mass.n.04,religion,religion.n.02,in_topic_domains,(Roman Catholic Church and Protestant Churches) the celebration of the Eucharist,,['Mass'],", anyway we made serious down - to - earth matrimonial love with the TV set on and a midnight Mass , Catholic , blaring crooning words in Latin , and a bell rang , on the floor , then I guess it was December 25 after all , Christmas Day , I mean , if it was a midnight Mass on the TV . . ."
1556,Catholic,Catholic,PROPN,NNP,catholic.n.01,catholic.n.01,religion,religion.n.02,member_meronyms,a member of a Catholic church,,['Catholic'],", anyway we made serious down - to - earth matrimonial love with the TV set on and a midnight Mass , Catholic , blaring crooning words in Latin , and a bell rang , on the floor , then I guess it was December 25 after all , Christmas Day , I mean , if it was a midnight Mass on the TV . . ."
1556,crooning,croon,VERB,VBG,croon.v.01,croon.v.01,music,music.n.01,hyponyms,sing softly,,['croon'],", anyway we made serious down - to - earth matrimonial love with the TV set on and a midnight Mass , Catholic , blaring crooning words in Latin , and a bell rang , on the floor , then I guess it was December 25 after all , Christmas Day , I mean , if it was a midnight Mass on the TV . . ."
1556,Mass,Mass,PROPN,NNP,mass.n.04,mass.n.04,religion,religion.n.02,in_topic_domains,(Roman Catholic Church and Protestant Churches) the celebration of the Eucharist,,['Mass'],", anyway we made serious down - to - earth matrimonial love with the TV set on and a midnight Mass , Catholic , blaring crooning words in Latin , and a bell rang , on the floor , then I guess it was December 25 after all , Christmas Day , I mean , if it was a midnight Mass on the TV . . ."
1558,piece,piece,NOUN,NN,musical_composition.n.01,musical_composition.n.01,music,music.n.01,hyponyms,a musical work that has been created,the composition is written in four movements,"['musical_composition', 'opus', 'composition', 'piece', 'piece_of_music']","Bill Demby came over about six , may as well be truthful , I phoned and asked him to come over , washed my hair , washed my undies , started a letter , opened a can of sardines , put on a Modugno record , nothing worked , Christmas Day in Rome would n’t pass , moved like sticky syrup on a piece of toast , so anyway I asked Bill Demby to come over and he came , half stewed , said Christmas Day was his birthday , but nobody gave him any birthday presents except a hospital blanket and a cake of soap , Christ ! , a fellow Nigra - American all alone in Rome , so he started singing Negro spirituals , he had a pint of Jack Daniels which together we gently and slowly drank , tears poured down his eyes as on Christmas Day in Rome 1962 he said only the Pope can save the world and sang ."
1558,spirituals,spiritual,NOUN,NNS,spiritual.n.01,spiritual.n.01,music,music.n.01,hyponyms,a kind of religious song originated by Blacks in the southern United States,,"['spiritual', 'Negro_spiritual']","Bill Demby came over about six , may as well be truthful , I phoned and asked him to come over , washed my hair , washed my undies , started a letter , opened a can of sardines , put on a Modugno record , nothing worked , Christmas Day in Rome would n’t pass , moved like sticky syrup on a piece of toast , so anyway I asked Bill Demby to come over and he came , half stewed , said Christmas Day was his birthday , but nobody gave him any birthday presents except a hospital blanket and a cake of soap , Christ ! , a fellow Nigra - American all alone in Rome , so he started singing Negro spirituals , he had a pint of Jack Daniels which together we gently and slowly drank , tears poured down his eyes as on Christmas Day in Rome 1962 he said only the Pope can save the world and sang ."
1558,Pope,Pope,PROPN,NNP,pope.n.01,pope.n.01,religion,religion.n.02,hyponyms,the head of the Roman Catholic Church,,"['pope', 'Catholic_Pope', 'Roman_Catholic_Pope', 'pontiff', 'Holy_Father', 'Vicar_of_Christ', 'Bishop_of_Rome']","Bill Demby came over about six , may as well be truthful , I phoned and asked him to come over , washed my hair , washed my undies , started a letter , opened a can of sardines , put on a Modugno record , nothing worked , Christmas Day in Rome would n’t pass , moved like sticky syrup on a piece of toast , so anyway I asked Bill Demby to come over and he came , half stewed , said Christmas Day was his birthday , but nobody gave him any birthday presents except a hospital blanket and a cake of soap , Christ ! , a fellow Nigra - American all alone in Rome , so he started singing Negro spirituals , he had a pint of Jack Daniels which together we gently and slowly drank , tears poured down his eyes as on Christmas Day in Rome 1962 he said only the Pope can save the world and sang ."
1558,sang,sing,VERB,VBD,sing.v.01,sing.v.01,music,music.n.01,hyponyms,deliver by singing,Sing Christmas carols,['sing'],"Bill Demby came over about six , may as well be truthful , I phoned and asked him to come over , washed my hair , washed my undies , started a letter , opened a can of sardines , put on a Modugno record , nothing worked , Christmas Day in Rome would n’t pass , moved like sticky syrup on a piece of toast , so anyway I asked Bill Demby to come over and he came , half stewed , said Christmas Day was his birthday , but nobody gave him any birthday presents except a hospital blanket and a cake of soap , Christ ! , a fellow Nigra - American all alone in Rome , so he started singing Negro spirituals , he had a pint of Jack Daniels which together we gently and slowly drank , tears poured down his eyes as on Christmas Day in Rome 1962 he said only the Pope can save the world and sang ."
1565,kill,kill,VERB,VB,kill.v.01,kill.v.01,violence,kill.v.01,original,"cause to die; put to death, usually intentionally or knowingly",This man killed several people when he tried to rob a bank. The farmer killed a pig for the holidays,['kill'],"For example : if I tell Bill Demby I ’m pregnant and ask his help — I do n’t want an abortion after what happened to whatshername , I do n’t even want to think of an abortion , they ’ll kill me , I know they will , I do n’t want to die , and even if I lived I ’d be dead , after what happened to whatshername!—and I go ahead and have the baby and the baby turns out to be blond and blue - eyed ?"
1571,assaults,assault,VERB,VBZ,assail.v.01,assail.v.01,violence,assail.v.01,original,attack someone physically or emotionally,The mugger assaulted the woman. Nightmares assailed him regularly,"['assail', 'assault', 'set_on', 'attack']","As they approach the prison at the top of the hill , a shapeless stone fortress that brutally assaults the eye lulled by quaint cobblestoned streets and the effeminate millinery shop , pastel pinks and blues of the houses and walls , Doris is suddenly afraid ."
1572,image,image,NOUN,NN,trope.n.01,trope.n.01,music,music.n.01,hyponyms,language used in a figurative or nonliteral sense,,"['trope', 'figure_of_speech', 'figure', 'image']","Never before in her life , as in this moment ( a cold wind blows up crazily from the muddy gray sea , beady suspicious eyes imbedded like dried currants in cold - shriveled faces stare at the haughty brown - faced girl , at her mink coat , the mink coat given her mother by her gangster father which arrived by airmail parcel post a week before Christmas and which still smells of mothballs ; a priest , a transparent arthritic image in dirty white and whitened black , stops in his tracks , takes a few steps backward toward the entrance of a tobacco shop , and surreptitiously crosses himself as Doris passes arm in arm with the tall blond count , a disembodied voice afloat on a pale green pamphlet announcing a religious festival in honor of the Marriage of the Holy Virgin says : “ Sard uriattrice . . . ” ) has she felt so far from home . . ."
1585,Bible,Bible,PROPN,NNP,bible.n.01,bible.n.01,religion,bible.n.01,original,the sacred writings of the Christian religions,he went to carry the Word to the heathen,"['Bible', 'Christian_Bible', 'Book', 'Good_Book', 'Holy_Scripture', 'Holy_Writ', 'Scripture', 'Word_of_God', 'Word']","“ If we do not now dare everything , the fulfillment of that prophecy , re - created from the Bible in song by a slave , is upon us : GOD GAVE NOAH THE RAINBOW SIGN , NO MORE WATER , THE FIRE NEXT TIME ! ”"
1585,GOD,GOD,PROPN,NNP,god.n.01,god.n.01,religion,god.n.01,original,the supernatural being conceived as the perfect and omnipotent and omniscient originator and ruler of the universe; the object of worship in monotheistic religions,,"['God', 'Supreme_Being']","“ If we do not now dare everything , the fulfillment of that prophecy , re - created from the Bible in song by a slave , is upon us : GOD GAVE NOAH THE RAINBOW SIGN , NO MORE WATER , THE FIRE NEXT TIME ! ”"
1588,music,music,NOUN,NN,music.n.02,music.n.02,music,music.n.02,original,any agreeable (pleasing and harmonious) sounds,he fell asleep to the music of the wind chimes,"['music', 'euphony']","Tears come to Doris ’ eyes : the bitter icy wind , the mink coat given her mother by her gangster father , Bill Demby writing a book about her because he does n’t dare write a book about himself , the Count living on an island and calling islanders crazy , Doris hears distant music , organs and harps , a double flute , that dream she had about stolen silverware on Marilyn Monroe ’s grave . . ."
1588,organs,organ,NOUN,NNS,organ.n.05,organ.n.05,music,musical_instrument.n.01,hyponyms,wind instrument whose sound is produced by means of pipes arranged in sets supplied with air from a bellows and controlled from a large complex musical keyboard,,"['organ', 'pipe_organ']","Tears come to Doris ’ eyes : the bitter icy wind , the mink coat given her mother by her gangster father , Bill Demby writing a book about her because he does n’t dare write a book about himself , the Count living on an island and calling islanders crazy , Doris hears distant music , organs and harps , a double flute , that dream she had about stolen silverware on Marilyn Monroe ’s grave . . ."
1588,harps,harp,NOUN,NNS,harp.n.01,harp.n.01,music,musical_instrument.n.01,hyponyms,a chordophone that has a triangular frame consisting of a sounding board and a pillar and a curved neck; the strings stretched between the neck and the soundbox are plucked with the fingers,,['harp'],"Tears come to Doris ’ eyes : the bitter icy wind , the mink coat given her mother by her gangster father , Bill Demby writing a book about her because he does n’t dare write a book about himself , the Count living on an island and calling islanders crazy , Doris hears distant music , organs and harps , a double flute , that dream she had about stolen silverware on Marilyn Monroe ’s grave . . ."
1588,flute,flute,NOUN,NN,flute.n.01,flute.n.01,music,musical_instrument.n.01,hyponyms,a high-pitched woodwind instrument; a slender tube closed at one end with finger holes on one end and an opening near the closed end across which the breath is blown,,"['flute', 'transverse_flute']","Tears come to Doris ’ eyes : the bitter icy wind , the mink coat given her mother by her gangster father , Bill Demby writing a book about her because he does n’t dare write a book about himself , the Count living on an island and calling islanders crazy , Doris hears distant music , organs and harps , a double flute , that dream she had about stolen silverware on Marilyn Monroe ’s grave . . ."
1610,God,God,PROPN,NNP,god.n.01,god.n.01,religion,god.n.01,original,the supernatural being conceived as the perfect and omnipotent and omniscient originator and ruler of the universe; the object of worship in monotheistic religions,,"['God', 'Supreme_Being']","Something strange is going on , it ’s a warning , God is warning us that another Ice Age could come ..."
1616,Church,Church,PROPN,NNP,church.n.01,church.n.01,religion,religion.n.02,hyponyms,one of the groups of Christians who have their own beliefs and forms of worship,,"['church', 'Christian_church']","“ Sometimes , Doris ... I mean , maybe the Church was right not translating the Bible ..."
1616,Bible,Bible,PROPN,NNP,bible.n.01,bible.n.01,religion,bible.n.01,original,the sacred writings of the Christian religions,he went to carry the Word to the heathen,"['Bible', 'Christian_Bible', 'Book', 'Good_Book', 'Holy_Scripture', 'Holy_Writ', 'Scripture', 'Word_of_God', 'Word']","“ Sometimes , Doris ... I mean , maybe the Church was right not translating the Bible ..."
1643,blessing,blessing,NOUN,NN,benediction.n.02,benediction.n.02,religion,prayer.n.02,hyponyms,a ceremonial prayer invoking divine protection,,"['benediction', 'blessing']","Like a whispered blessing , snow for the first time in years falls on Rome ."
1645,temple,temple,PROPN,NNP,temple.n.01,temple.n.01,religion,temple.n.01,original,place of worship consisting of an edifice for the worship of a deity,,['temple'],"All during this troubled month , until this morning at 2:00 a.m. the snow began to fall , the doors of twin - faced Janus ’ temple banged open and shut with each shifting of the cold violent wind ."
1646,saint,saint,NOUN,NN,saint.n.01,saint.n.01,religion,deity.n.01,hyponyms,a person who has died and has been declared a saint by canonization,,['saint'],"As yet , there is no sign of spring : until this morning when the snow began to fall , twin - faced Janus , looking forward in time and back , wore the sinister dark glasses of the gangster and the celestial - tinted contact lenses of the saint ."
1654,divine,divine,ADJ,JJ,divine.s.03,divine.s.03,religion,divine.s.03,original,being or having the nature of a god;  - J.G.Frazier; ; ;  - J.G.Saxe,the custom of killing the divine king upon any serious failure of his...powers. the divine will. the divine capacity for love. 'Tis wise to learn; 'tis God-like to create,"['divine', 'godlike']","And he shall ( be cured ): of the invisible and indivisible virus of madness ( i.e. , we grope in darkness but as yet do not touch ) that attacks plants and animals , attacks that which is created and hence divine ."
1659,God,God,PROPN,NNP,god.n.01,god.n.01,religion,god.n.01,original,the supernatural being conceived as the perfect and omnipotent and omniscient originator and ruler of the universe; the object of worship in monotheistic religions,,"['God', 'Supreme_Being']","Oh , God , Our Father , who is in Heaven , it is cold , it is cold , the white ( European ) world is cold , the flowers of narcissus bloom in the Himalayan alps ( When will the marguerite bloom ? ) ."
1660,God,God,PROPN,NNP,god.n.01,god.n.01,religion,god.n.01,original,the supernatural being conceived as the perfect and omnipotent and omniscient originator and ruler of the universe; the object of worship in monotheistic religions,,"['God', 'Supreme_Being']","Oh , God , Our Father , who is in Heaven , it is cold , it is cold , the white ( European ) world is cold ; cold the silly refrigerating thrill of cocaine , warm the God - ordained pillow of snow ."
1660,God,God,PROPN,NNP,god.n.01,god.n.01,religion,god.n.01,original,the supernatural being conceived as the perfect and omnipotent and omniscient originator and ruler of the universe; the object of worship in monotheistic religions,,"['God', 'Supreme_Being']","Oh , God , Our Father , who is in Heaven , it is cold , it is cold , the white ( European ) world is cold ; cold the silly refrigerating thrill of cocaine , warm the God - ordained pillow of snow ."
1663,saint,saint,NOUN,NN,saint.n.01,saint.n.01,religion,deity.n.01,hyponyms,a person who has died and has been declared a saint by canonization,,['saint'],"Our Father , who is in Heaven , I am ashamed : white is not purity , contact lenses though they be tinted celestial do not necessarily make a saint ."
1679,raps,rap,VERB,VBZ,rap.v.03,rap.v.03,music,music.n.01,in_topic_domains,perform rap music,,['rap'],"he says , and glances at the headline : mac raps de gaulle bid to rule Europe ."
1726,jazz,jazz,NOUN,NN,jazz.n.03,jazz.n.03,music,music.n.01,hyponyms,a style of dance music popular in the 1920s; similar to New Orleans jazz but played by large bands,,['jazz'],"dynasties and dinosaurs , and all that jazz !"
1744,God,God,PROPN,NNP,deity.n.01,deity.n.01,religion,deity.n.01,original,any supernatural being worshipped as controlling some part of the world or some aspect of life or who is the personification of a force,,"['deity', 'divinity', 'god', 'immortal']",The German rabbit — God rest his fertile soul — has spaken ! ”
1770,diva,diva,NOUN,NN,prima_donna.n.02,prima_donna.n.02,music,musician.n.01,hyponyms,a distinguished female operatic singer; a female operatic star,,"['prima_donna', 'diva']",casta diva : “ Does the sun 's ray penetrate to the mother ’s womb where the drama of birth is taking place ? ”
1772,Diva,Diva,PROPN,NNP,prima_donna.n.02,prima_donna.n.02,music,musician.n.01,hyponyms,a distinguished female operatic singer; a female operatic star,,"['prima_donna', 'diva']","Greta Garbo was on TV , in Queen Christina , and I became annoyed with her too ; mainly because , I think , she wears dark sunglasses and is what I have come to call a “ Casta Diva , ” though she is anything but divine , since after all these years she continues to cling with Swedish tenacity to the vine of her myth , like one of those shriveled - up grapes , at least one of which you will find in any vineyard months after the more human grapes have been harvested ."
1772,divine,divine,NOUN,NN,godhead.n.01,godhead.n.01,religion,godhead.n.01,original,terms referring to the Judeo-Christian God,,"['Godhead', 'Lord', 'Creator', 'Maker', 'Divine', 'God_Almighty', 'Almighty', 'Jehovah']","Greta Garbo was on TV , in Queen Christina , and I became annoyed with her too ; mainly because , I think , she wears dark sunglasses and is what I have come to call a “ Casta Diva , ” though she is anything but divine , since after all these years she continues to cling with Swedish tenacity to the vine of her myth , like one of those shriveled - up grapes , at least one of which you will find in any vineyard months after the more human grapes have been harvested ."
1773,Divine,Divine,PROPN,NNP,godhead.n.01,godhead.n.01,religion,godhead.n.01,original,terms referring to the Judeo-Christian God,,"['Godhead', 'Lord', 'Creator', 'Maker', 'Divine', 'God_Almighty', 'Almighty', 'Jehovah']","So I left my wife , my mother - in - law , the nurse and my son ( who having just joined the Boy Scouts is studying to earn a merit badge in How To Make the Harem Ladies Laugh and Why ) to suffer through the glacial agonies of the Divine Greta — how many women of a certain age and generation dream of sitting on a throne and wearing black pants and a white cavalier collar while a nervous gray eminence in black pants and a white cavalier collar announces in a dramatically modulated drama - school tone of voice that ten thousand men have been killed in the latest queen - instigated battle ! ..."
1773,drama,drama,NOUN,NN,play.n.01,play.n.01,music,music.n.01,in_topic_domains,a dramatic work intended for performance by actors on a stage,he wrote several plays but only one was produced on Broadway,"['play', 'drama', 'dramatic_play']","So I left my wife , my mother - in - law , the nurse and my son ( who having just joined the Boy Scouts is studying to earn a merit badge in How To Make the Harem Ladies Laugh and Why ) to suffer through the glacial agonies of the Divine Greta — how many women of a certain age and generation dream of sitting on a throne and wearing black pants and a white cavalier collar while a nervous gray eminence in black pants and a white cavalier collar announces in a dramatically modulated drama - school tone of voice that ten thousand men have been killed in the latest queen - instigated battle ! ..."
1773,tone,tone,NOUN,NN,tone.n.01,tone.n.01,music,music.n.01,hyponyms,the quality of a person's voice,he began in a conversational tone. he spoke in a nervous tone of voice,"['tone', 'tone_of_voice']","So I left my wife , my mother - in - law , the nurse and my son ( who having just joined the Boy Scouts is studying to earn a merit badge in How To Make the Harem Ladies Laugh and Why ) to suffer through the glacial agonies of the Divine Greta — how many women of a certain age and generation dream of sitting on a throne and wearing black pants and a white cavalier collar while a nervous gray eminence in black pants and a white cavalier collar announces in a dramatically modulated drama - school tone of voice that ten thousand men have been killed in the latest queen - instigated battle ! ..."
1773,killed,kill,VERB,VBN,kill.v.10,kill.v.10,violence,kill.v.10,original,"cause the death of, without intention",She was killed in the collision of three cars,['kill'],"So I left my wife , my mother - in - law , the nurse and my son ( who having just joined the Boy Scouts is studying to earn a merit badge in How To Make the Harem Ladies Laugh and Why ) to suffer through the glacial agonies of the Divine Greta — how many women of a certain age and generation dream of sitting on a throne and wearing black pants and a white cavalier collar while a nervous gray eminence in black pants and a white cavalier collar announces in a dramatically modulated drama - school tone of voice that ten thousand men have been killed in the latest queen - instigated battle ! ..."
1774,Divas,Divas,PROPN,NNP,prima_donna.n.02,prima_donna.n.02,music,musician.n.01,hyponyms,a distinguished female operatic singer; a female operatic star,,"['prima_donna', 'diva']","I retired to my den with its double bed which only our pregnant cat seems to want to share with me ( she has dreams , and whimpers petulantly in her sleep , and looks at me accusingly when I get up to go to the bathroom at three o’clock in the morning , looks at me accusingly as if I had committed a terrible crime by disturbing her dreams , looks at me accusingly as I were the one who had made her pregnant , which just goes to show that women are all alike whether they ’re Casta Divas , queen bees , silly pregnant cats , mothers and mother - in - laws : I do n’t think that women like men very much , but I like Doris , and now that she is pregnant , I am determined to protect her , she needs my help , and I am going to be helpful ) and listened to my favorite Louis Armstrong record , and I listened to , and carefully read the libretto of ( La Callas singing the female lead ) a very fine recording of Rossini ’s Il Turco in Italia ."
1774,lead,lead,NOUN,NN,lead.n.06,lead.n.06,music,music.n.01,hyponyms,the introductory section of a story,it was an amusing lead-in to a very serious matter,"['lead', 'lead-in', 'lede']","I retired to my den with its double bed which only our pregnant cat seems to want to share with me ( she has dreams , and whimpers petulantly in her sleep , and looks at me accusingly when I get up to go to the bathroom at three o’clock in the morning , looks at me accusingly as if I had committed a terrible crime by disturbing her dreams , looks at me accusingly as I were the one who had made her pregnant , which just goes to show that women are all alike whether they ’re Casta Divas , queen bees , silly pregnant cats , mothers and mother - in - laws : I do n’t think that women like men very much , but I like Doris , and now that she is pregnant , I am determined to protect her , she needs my help , and I am going to be helpful ) and listened to my favorite Louis Armstrong record , and I listened to , and carefully read the libretto of ( La Callas singing the female lead ) a very fine recording of Rossini ’s Il Turco in Italia ."
1779,anger,anger,NOUN,NN,anger.n.01,anger.n.01,violence,anger.n.01,original,a strong emotion; a feeling that is oriented toward some real or supposed grievance,,"['anger', 'choler', 'ire']","Somehow I feel devilish today ( no doubt yesterday ’s badly suppressed anger against the pregnant cat , my mother - in - law and the Divine Greta is partly responsible ) , and the devilish thought has just come to me : What if some devilish Tycoon of Industry with a limp , a cape , a cane and a devilish look in his eyes has duped the ladies by passing off just plain pink sugar and glucose placebo pills as “ guaranteed to prevent life or your MONEY BACK ‘ oBSCURANTISTIC BRAND BIRTH CONTROL tablets ’ . . ."
1779,Divine,Divine,PROPN,NNP,godhead.n.01,godhead.n.01,religion,godhead.n.01,original,terms referring to the Judeo-Christian God,,"['Godhead', 'Lord', 'Creator', 'Maker', 'Divine', 'God_Almighty', 'Almighty', 'Jehovah']","Somehow I feel devilish today ( no doubt yesterday ’s badly suppressed anger against the pregnant cat , my mother - in - law and the Divine Greta is partly responsible ) , and the devilish thought has just come to me : What if some devilish Tycoon of Industry with a limp , a cape , a cane and a devilish look in his eyes has duped the ladies by passing off just plain pink sugar and glucose placebo pills as “ guaranteed to prevent life or your MONEY BACK ‘ oBSCURANTISTIC BRAND BIRTH CONTROL tablets ’ . . ."
1781,Divine,Divine,PROPN,NNP,godhead.n.01,godhead.n.01,religion,godhead.n.01,original,terms referring to the Judeo-Christian God,,"['Godhead', 'Lord', 'Creator', 'Maker', 'Divine', 'God_Almighty', 'Almighty', 'Jehovah']",“ Be Divine Without Dropping from the Vine ! ”
1793,thrill,thrill,NOUN,NN,bang.n.04,bang.n.04,violence,bang.n.04,original,the swift release of a store of affective force,they got a great bang out of it. what a boot!. he got a quick rush from injecting heroin. he does it for kicks,"['bang', 'boot', 'charge', 'rush', 'flush', 'thrill', 'kick']","That afternoon on the beach of Ladispoli Doris said : “ You writers are always spying on us women when you make love to us , to see if we ’re getting a thrill . . . ”"
1797,Aquinas,Aquinas,PROPN,NNP,aquinas.n.01,aquinas.n.01,religion,religion.n.02,in_topic_domains,(Roman Catholic Church) Italian theologian and Doctor of the Church who is remembered for his attempt to reconcile faith and reason in a comprehensive theology; presented philosophical proofs of the existence of God (1225-1274),,"['Aquinas', 'Thomas_Aquinas', 'Saint_Thomas', 'St._Thomas', 'Saint_Thomas_Aquinas', 'St._Thomas_Aquinas']",Albertus Magnus had two par ticularly famous pupils — Thomas Aquinas ( 1225 - 74 ) of Italy and Roger Bacon ( 1214 - 94 ) of England .
1799,Lucifer,Lucifer,PROPN,NNP,satan.n.01,satan.n.01,religion,religion.n.01,in_topic_domains,(Judeo-Christian and Islamic religions) chief spirit of evil and adversary of God; tempter of mankind; master of Hell,,"['Satan', 'Old_Nick', 'Devil', 'Lucifer', 'Beelzebub', 'the_Tempter', 'Prince_of_Darkness']",He popularized Jabir the Arab ’s notion concerning the principles of “ mercury ” and “ sulfur ” ( Hermes and Lucifer ? ) .
1805,ASSASSINATION,ASSASSINATION,PROPN,NNP,assassination.n.02,assassination.n.02,violence,murder.n.01,hyponyms,murder of a public figure by surprise attack,,['assassination'],ARMY UNDER ACCUSATION AFTER DE GAULLE ASSASSINATION ATTEMPT FAILS . . .
1812,pope,pope,NOUN,NN,pope.n.01,pope.n.01,religion,religion.n.02,hyponyms,the head of the Roman Catholic Church,,"['pope', 'Catholic_Pope', 'Roman_Catholic_Pope', 'pontiff', 'Holy_Father', 'Vicar_of_Christ', 'Bishop_of_Rome']","Today spring has come and suddenly now I have a vision : a drop of water issues miraculously from a mountain rock , the drops of water become streams , the streams become rivers , the rivers flow south ( though “ south ” be “ north ” ) , away , away from the possessive magnetic clutch of the male — south , ever south , flow the rivers of the world , south to the solemn green silence of the swampland mating ground , to that windless acre where Birth takes place , where the fresh - water innocence of the rivers of the world makes union with the timeless Father - Mother thirst of the salt - weighted sea ... ‘ Tacem In Terris ” ( “ pope stresses peace in easier message ."
1813,offered,offer,VERB,VBN,offer.v.09,offer.v.09,religion,church_service.n.01,hyponyms,present as an act of worship,offer prayers to the gods,"['offer', 'offer_up']","Vatican City , April 13 , 1963 ( AP)—Holy Saturday services were offered in Roman Catholic churches around the world today as the end of Lent and the joyous celebration of Easter draws near ."
1813,Catholic,Catholic,PROPN,NNP,catholic.n.01,catholic.n.01,religion,religion.n.02,member_meronyms,a member of a Catholic church,,['Catholic'],"Vatican City , April 13 , 1963 ( AP)—Holy Saturday services were offered in Roman Catholic churches around the world today as the end of Lent and the joyous celebration of Easter draws near ."
1813,churches,church,NOUN,NNS,church_service.n.01,church_service.n.01,religion,church_service.n.01,original,a service conducted in a house of worship,don't be late for church,"['church_service', 'church']","Vatican City , April 13 , 1963 ( AP)—Holy Saturday services were offered in Roman Catholic churches around the world today as the end of Lent and the joyous celebration of Easter draws near ."
1814,Pope,Pope,PROPN,NNP,pope.n.01,pope.n.01,religion,religion.n.02,hyponyms,the head of the Roman Catholic Church,,"['pope', 'Catholic_Pope', 'Roman_Catholic_Pope', 'pontiff', 'Holy_Father', 'Vicar_of_Christ', 'Bishop_of_Rome']",A highlight of the day was Pope John XXIII ’s scheduled annual Easter message to the world scheduled for 8 p.m. Rome time .
1818,churches,church,NOUN,NNS,church.n.04,church.n.04,religion,church.n.04,original,the body of people who attend or belong to a particular local church,our church is hosting a picnic next week,['church'],"In the St. Peter ’s service and in Roman Catholic churches everywhere , candles are lit at the church doors to symbolize that the light of the world — Christ — still lives even though his body is buried . . . ” ) ( “ un an - nunzio ufficiale della ‘ casa bianca’—La signora Kennedy attende un bimbo per il mese di agosto ."
1818,church,church,NOUN,NN,church.n.04,church.n.04,religion,church.n.04,original,the body of people who attend or belong to a particular local church,our church is hosting a picnic next week,['church'],"In the St. Peter ’s service and in Roman Catholic churches everywhere , candles are lit at the church doors to symbolize that the light of the world — Christ — still lives even though his body is buried . . . ” ) ( “ un an - nunzio ufficiale della ‘ casa bianca’—La signora Kennedy attende un bimbo per il mese di agosto ."
1821,dance,dance,NOUN,NN,dance.n.01,dance.n.01,music,dance.n.01,original,an artistic form of nonverbal communication,,['dance'],"Today is Tuesday , April 16 , 1963 : the gray winter witches have left Rome at last , they have passed silently through their secret tunnel under the Alps , a dried - up underground river strewn with diamonds that do not glitter because there is no light , back to their summer abode on the other side of the leaden mirror , back to their rusty - iron - nailed , invisible abode , atop a magic mountain where magic moments dematerialize into demagnetized dance floors where dancing couples of gray lifeless winter ghosts strive in vain to recall and assume the preordained patterns of the Volta - directed quadrille — one , two , three , four ."
1821,dancing,dance,VERB,VBG,dance.v.02,dance.v.02,music,dancing.n.01,in_topic_domains,move in a pattern; usually to musical accompaniment; do or perform a dance,My husband and I like to dance at home to the radio,"['dance', 'trip_the_light_fantastic', 'trip_the_light_fantastic_toe']","Today is Tuesday , April 16 , 1963 : the gray winter witches have left Rome at last , they have passed silently through their secret tunnel under the Alps , a dried - up underground river strewn with diamonds that do not glitter because there is no light , back to their summer abode on the other side of the leaden mirror , back to their rusty - iron - nailed , invisible abode , atop a magic mountain where magic moments dematerialize into demagnetized dance floors where dancing couples of gray lifeless winter ghosts strive in vain to recall and assume the preordained patterns of the Volta - directed quadrille — one , two , three , four ."
1821,quadrille,quadrille,NOUN,NN,quadrille.n.01,quadrille.n.01,music,music.n.01,hyponyms,music for dancing the quadrille,,['quadrille'],"Today is Tuesday , April 16 , 1963 : the gray winter witches have left Rome at last , they have passed silently through their secret tunnel under the Alps , a dried - up underground river strewn with diamonds that do not glitter because there is no light , back to their summer abode on the other side of the leaden mirror , back to their rusty - iron - nailed , invisible abode , atop a magic mountain where magic moments dematerialize into demagnetized dance floors where dancing couples of gray lifeless winter ghosts strive in vain to recall and assume the preordained patterns of the Volta - directed quadrille — one , two , three , four ."
1825,dancing,dance,VERB,VBG,dance.v.01,dance.v.01,music,dance.v.01,original,move in a graceful and rhythmical way,The young girl danced into the room,['dance'],"One , two , four , three , one , two ... all in vain , the gray winter witches have left Rome , in vain they thirst for iron , desperately they seek to recall the preordained patterns , the four - sided pattern of rock - crystal perfection , dancing their three - numbered quadrille , the gray winter witches hibernate in their lightless heatless waterless ironless spa in Hussite Bohemia , praise be the Lord of Light , we are granted a reprieve , warm shines the sun on this chiesa which is Rome , pro jecting both warmth and light on microscopic vegetal consciousnesses colonizing the alfresco painted hands of saints , warming the brazen birth button of that first naked Venus , goddess immaculate , madonna without clothes . . ."
1825,quadrille,quadrille,NOUN,NN,quadrille.n.01,quadrille.n.01,music,music.n.01,hyponyms,music for dancing the quadrille,,['quadrille'],"One , two , four , three , one , two ... all in vain , the gray winter witches have left Rome , in vain they thirst for iron , desperately they seek to recall the preordained patterns , the four - sided pattern of rock - crystal perfection , dancing their three - numbered quadrille , the gray winter witches hibernate in their lightless heatless waterless ironless spa in Hussite Bohemia , praise be the Lord of Light , we are granted a reprieve , warm shines the sun on this chiesa which is Rome , pro jecting both warmth and light on microscopic vegetal consciousnesses colonizing the alfresco painted hands of saints , warming the brazen birth button of that first naked Venus , goddess immaculate , madonna without clothes . . ."
1825,Lord,Lord,PROPN,NNP,godhead.n.01,godhead.n.01,religion,godhead.n.01,original,terms referring to the Judeo-Christian God,,"['Godhead', 'Lord', 'Creator', 'Maker', 'Divine', 'God_Almighty', 'Almighty', 'Jehovah']","One , two , four , three , one , two ... all in vain , the gray winter witches have left Rome , in vain they thirst for iron , desperately they seek to recall the preordained patterns , the four - sided pattern of rock - crystal perfection , dancing their three - numbered quadrille , the gray winter witches hibernate in their lightless heatless waterless ironless spa in Hussite Bohemia , praise be the Lord of Light , we are granted a reprieve , warm shines the sun on this chiesa which is Rome , pro jecting both warmth and light on microscopic vegetal consciousnesses colonizing the alfresco painted hands of saints , warming the brazen birth button of that first naked Venus , goddess immaculate , madonna without clothes . . ."
1825,goddess,goddess,NOUN,NN,goddess.n.01,goddess.n.01,religion,deity.n.01,hyponyms,a female deity,,['goddess'],"One , two , four , three , one , two ... all in vain , the gray winter witches have left Rome , in vain they thirst for iron , desperately they seek to recall the preordained patterns , the four - sided pattern of rock - crystal perfection , dancing their three - numbered quadrille , the gray winter witches hibernate in their lightless heatless waterless ironless spa in Hussite Bohemia , praise be the Lord of Light , we are granted a reprieve , warm shines the sun on this chiesa which is Rome , pro jecting both warmth and light on microscopic vegetal consciousnesses colonizing the alfresco painted hands of saints , warming the brazen birth button of that first naked Venus , goddess immaculate , madonna without clothes . . ."
1849,Pope,Pope,PROPN,NNP,pope.n.01,pope.n.01,religion,religion.n.02,hyponyms,the head of the Roman Catholic Church,,"['pope', 'Catholic_Pope', 'Roman_Catholic_Pope', 'pontiff', 'Holy_Father', 'Vicar_of_Christ', 'Bishop_of_Rome']","and now three weeks have passed , and here I am standing on these silk - smooth stones of St. Peter ’s square , gazing up at the window of the dying Pope ."
1850,pope,pope,NOUN,NN,pope.n.01,pope.n.01,religion,religion.n.02,hyponyms,the head of the Roman Catholic Church,,"['pope', 'Catholic_Pope', 'Roman_Catholic_Pope', 'pontiff', 'Holy_Father', 'Vicar_of_Christ', 'Bishop_of_Rome']",Five years ago I stood in almost the exact spot gazing up at the chimney waiting for the puff of white smoke that would announce to the world that a new pope had been chosen at last .
1858,anger,anger,NOUN,NN,anger.n.01,anger.n.01,violence,anger.n.01,original,a strong emotion; a feeling that is oriented toward some real or supposed grievance,,"['anger', 'choler', 'ire']","Finally she goes off to interview someone else , and again I am alone with my thoughts ( the shame and guilt and anger of these weeks for those terrifying newspix from Birmingham of fierce gum - chewing police dogs enforcing the Law with Nazi efficiency ! )"
1859,Pope,Pope,PROPN,NNP,pope.n.01,pope.n.01,religion,religion.n.02,hyponyms,the head of the Roman Catholic Church,,"['pope', 'Catholic_Pope', 'Roman_Catholic_Pope', 'pontiff', 'Holy_Father', 'Vicar_of_Christ', 'Bishop_of_Rome']","gazing up at the window of the dying Pope , wondering why I am here . . ."
1860,Pope,Pope,PROPN,NNP,pope.n.01,pope.n.01,religion,religion.n.02,hyponyms,the head of the Roman Catholic Church,,"['pope', 'Catholic_Pope', 'Roman_Catholic_Pope', 'pontiff', 'Holy_Father', 'Vicar_of_Christ', 'Bishop_of_Rome']",Today I read in the papers that the Pope ’s last words were : “ Mater Mea . . . ”
1861,Pope,Pope,PROPN,NNP,pope.n.01,pope.n.01,religion,religion.n.02,hyponyms,the head of the Roman Catholic Church,,"['pope', 'Catholic_Pope', 'Roman_Catholic_Pope', 'pontiff', 'Holy_Father', 'Vicar_of_Christ', 'Bishop_of_Rome']","This morning , like ants among ants streaming in an endless flow toward some unexpected morsel of edible flesh , my wife , my son and I join the enormous crowd entering St. Peter ’s to pay homage to the now tiny Pope encased in stiffly foldless garments of red and gold embroidered silk ."
1862,rape,rape,VERB,VB,rape.v.02,rape.v.02,violence,rape.v.02,original,destroy and strip of its possession,The soldiers raped the beautiful country,"['rape', 'spoil', 'despoil', 'violate', 'plunder']","From a distance , towered over by the colossal marble presence of St. Peter , the statue , Giovanni XXIII looks like a gift - wrapped gourmand ’s caseus ( an ashen - faced distraught woman tries to throw herself down on the floor to pray , to rape that body of the Everyman who is dead , there is a swift black flutter behind the wooden barrier and a plainclothes policeman says loudly , in the dialect of the Italian south : “ Keep moving lady , circolare , circolare ! ” ) ."
1863,Pope,Pope,PROPN,NNP,pope.n.01,pope.n.01,religion,religion.n.02,hyponyms,the head of the Roman Catholic Church,,"['pope', 'Catholic_Pope', 'Roman_Catholic_Pope', 'pontiff', 'Holy_Father', 'Vicar_of_Christ', 'Bishop_of_Rome']","And as slowly , like boarders in some enormous pensione shuffling through a drafty corridor in bathrobe and slippers , we move with uneasy unaccustomed reverence through the deceptive time - space dimensions of this chiesa which is Rome , the plainclothes policeman ’s words remain impressed on my mind like a chiseled phrase from the dead Pope ’s encyclical . . ."
1881,church,church,NOUN,NN,church.n.02,church.n.02,religion,church.n.02,original,a place for public (especially Christian) worship,the church was empty,"['church', 'church_building']","( And now , as the noon whistle sounds and first Lillian Johnson and then my friend Alex phone , I return to the typewriter with a strange question on my mind : “ Who is Hamlet , what is a hamlet , is not a hamlet a tiny village without a church ? . . . ” )"
1885,Jerome,Jerome,PROPN,NNP,jerome.n.01,jerome.n.01,religion,religion.n.02,in_topic_domains,(Roman Catholic Church) one of the great Fathers of the early Christian Church whose major work was his translation of the Scriptures from Hebrew and Greek into Latin (which became the Vulgate); a saint and Doctor of the Church (347-420),,"['Jerome', 'Saint_Jerome', 'St._Jerome', 'Hieronymus', 'Eusebius_Hieronymus', 'Eusebius_Sophronius_Hieronymus']","The Count glances at himself in the full - length mirror to the right of the door , but instead finds himself observing the dark varnished reflection of St. Jerome and the lion in the desert : the painting badly needs restoring , there is no smell of cooking in the house , the walls need plastering , why is the maid looking at me like that ? . . ."
1889,resentment,resentment,NOUN,NN,resentment.n.01,resentment.n.01,violence,hate.n.01,hyponyms,a feeling of deep and bitter anger and ill-will,,"['resentment', 'bitterness', 'gall', 'rancor', 'rancour']","The subtle emphasis on signora brings a cool flash of resentment to his cheeks ... does she know , Marozia , the cook and maidservant who has been with his wife from the day they returned from their honeymoon , about his affair with the American Negro girl , Doris ?"
1897,figure,figure,NOUN,NN,trope.n.01,trope.n.01,music,music.n.01,hyponyms,language used in a figurative or nonliteral sense,,"['trope', 'figure_of_speech', 'figure', 'image']","Like a patient abbess ( she is of ivory complexion , raven - haired , her figure is full , weighted to this earth , but there is an ethereal lightness to her glance , like a thirty - jet monster military troop carrier designed by a madman who has only known the embraces of teen - age whores , about to make the , all know , impossible effort of taking off , she looks like a Jewess , loved by William Breakspeare in a Shakespearian PLAY , this is Adelaide of a noble family traumatized in the Italian south by northern blondes and southern brunettes , dashing about with TV purposefulness looking for the hidden Easter eggs in those days of the Crusades , the Holy Chalice Grail safely hid in Switzerland , bank secret box number ... ) of a strange new convent , as yet without orders , but a convent where there is no smell of cooking in the house , Adelaide , legitimate wife of the Count , looks up from her newspaper { Momenta Sera of Tuesday , June 18 : NELLA SISTINA 82 TRONETTI IN UNO DI ESSI IL NUOVO papa ) on the inside pages of which are Variety magazine actor - type photographs of all the Cardinals , all the Princes of the Church who in two or three days , a puff of huff and puff and I ’ll blow your house down smoke , one shall be pope . . ."
1897,Cardinals,Cardinals,PROPN,NNPS,cardinal.n.01,cardinal.n.01,religion,religion.n.02,hyponyms,(Roman Catholic Church) one of a group of more than 100 prominent bishops in the Sacred College who advise the Pope and elect new Popes,,['cardinal'],"Like a patient abbess ( she is of ivory complexion , raven - haired , her figure is full , weighted to this earth , but there is an ethereal lightness to her glance , like a thirty - jet monster military troop carrier designed by a madman who has only known the embraces of teen - age whores , about to make the , all know , impossible effort of taking off , she looks like a Jewess , loved by William Breakspeare in a Shakespearian PLAY , this is Adelaide of a noble family traumatized in the Italian south by northern blondes and southern brunettes , dashing about with TV purposefulness looking for the hidden Easter eggs in those days of the Crusades , the Holy Chalice Grail safely hid in Switzerland , bank secret box number ... ) of a strange new convent , as yet without orders , but a convent where there is no smell of cooking in the house , Adelaide , legitimate wife of the Count , looks up from her newspaper { Momenta Sera of Tuesday , June 18 : NELLA SISTINA 82 TRONETTI IN UNO DI ESSI IL NUOVO papa ) on the inside pages of which are Variety magazine actor - type photographs of all the Cardinals , all the Princes of the Church who in two or three days , a puff of huff and puff and I ’ll blow your house down smoke , one shall be pope . . ."
1897,Church,Church,PROPN,NNP,church.n.02,church.n.02,religion,church.n.02,original,a place for public (especially Christian) worship,the church was empty,"['church', 'church_building']","Like a patient abbess ( she is of ivory complexion , raven - haired , her figure is full , weighted to this earth , but there is an ethereal lightness to her glance , like a thirty - jet monster military troop carrier designed by a madman who has only known the embraces of teen - age whores , about to make the , all know , impossible effort of taking off , she looks like a Jewess , loved by William Breakspeare in a Shakespearian PLAY , this is Adelaide of a noble family traumatized in the Italian south by northern blondes and southern brunettes , dashing about with TV purposefulness looking for the hidden Easter eggs in those days of the Crusades , the Holy Chalice Grail safely hid in Switzerland , bank secret box number ... ) of a strange new convent , as yet without orders , but a convent where there is no smell of cooking in the house , Adelaide , legitimate wife of the Count , looks up from her newspaper { Momenta Sera of Tuesday , June 18 : NELLA SISTINA 82 TRONETTI IN UNO DI ESSI IL NUOVO papa ) on the inside pages of which are Variety magazine actor - type photographs of all the Cardinals , all the Princes of the Church who in two or three days , a puff of huff and puff and I ’ll blow your house down smoke , one shall be pope . . ."
1897,pope,pope,NOUN,NN,pope.n.01,pope.n.01,religion,religion.n.02,hyponyms,the head of the Roman Catholic Church,,"['pope', 'Catholic_Pope', 'Roman_Catholic_Pope', 'pontiff', 'Holy_Father', 'Vicar_of_Christ', 'Bishop_of_Rome']","Like a patient abbess ( she is of ivory complexion , raven - haired , her figure is full , weighted to this earth , but there is an ethereal lightness to her glance , like a thirty - jet monster military troop carrier designed by a madman who has only known the embraces of teen - age whores , about to make the , all know , impossible effort of taking off , she looks like a Jewess , loved by William Breakspeare in a Shakespearian PLAY , this is Adelaide of a noble family traumatized in the Italian south by northern blondes and southern brunettes , dashing about with TV purposefulness looking for the hidden Easter eggs in those days of the Crusades , the Holy Chalice Grail safely hid in Switzerland , bank secret box number ... ) of a strange new convent , as yet without orders , but a convent where there is no smell of cooking in the house , Adelaide , legitimate wife of the Count , looks up from her newspaper { Momenta Sera of Tuesday , June 18 : NELLA SISTINA 82 TRONETTI IN UNO DI ESSI IL NUOVO papa ) on the inside pages of which are Variety magazine actor - type photographs of all the Cardinals , all the Princes of the Church who in two or three days , a puff of huff and puff and I ’ll blow your house down smoke , one shall be pope . . ."
1901,Cardinals,Cardinals,PROPN,NNPS,cardinal.n.01,cardinal.n.01,religion,religion.n.02,hyponyms,(Roman Catholic Church) one of a group of more than 100 prominent bishops in the Sacred College who advise the Pope and elect new Popes,,['cardinal'],“ I was looking at the pictures of the Cardinals .
1905,Cardinals,cardinal,NOUN,NNS,cardinal.n.01,cardinal.n.01,religion,religion.n.02,hyponyms,(Roman Catholic Church) one of a group of more than 100 prominent bishops in the Sacred College who advise the Pope and elect new Popes,,['cardinal'],"One red , one black , one white .. “ And which Cardinals have you chosen ? ”"
1908,Cardinals,Cardinals,PROPN,NNPS,cardinal.n.01,cardinal.n.01,religion,religion.n.02,hyponyms,(Roman Catholic Church) one of a group of more than 100 prominent bishops in the Sacred College who advise the Pope and elect new Popes,,['cardinal'],“ Does one of the Cardinals of your choice have a beard ? ”
1910,devil,devil,NOUN,NN,satan.n.01,satan.n.01,religion,religion.n.01,in_topic_domains,(Judeo-Christian and Islamic religions) chief spirit of evil and adversary of God; tempter of mankind; master of Hell,,"['Satan', 'Old_Nick', 'Devil', 'Lucifer', 'Beelzebub', 'the_Tempter', 'Prince_of_Darkness']",“ What a devil you are ?
1912,devils,devil,NOUN,NNS,satan.n.01,satan.n.01,religion,religion.n.01,in_topic_domains,(Judeo-Christian and Islamic religions) chief spirit of evil and adversary of God; tempter of mankind; master of Hell,,"['Satan', 'Old_Nick', 'Devil', 'Lucifer', 'Beelzebub', 'the_Tempter', 'Prince_of_Darkness']",“ Speaking of devils .. .
1913,Cardinal,Cardinal,PROPN,NNP,cardinal.n.01,cardinal.n.01,religion,religion.n.02,hyponyms,(Roman Catholic Church) one of a group of more than 100 prominent bishops in the Sacred College who advise the Pope and elect new Popes,,['cardinal'],there is a Negro Cardinal . . . ”
1917,Saint,Saint,PROPN,NNP,saint.n.01,saint.n.01,religion,deity.n.01,hyponyms,a person who has died and has been declared a saint by canonization,,['saint'],"She tore it from a newspaper and keeps it with a picture of Saint Antonio of Padua , and a snapshot of her son who is in jail . . . ”"
1929,pope,pope,NOUN,NN,pope.n.01,pope.n.01,religion,religion.n.02,hyponyms,the head of the Roman Catholic Church,,"['pope', 'Catholic_Pope', 'Roman_Catholic_Pope', 'pontiff', 'Holy_Father', 'Vicar_of_Christ', 'Bishop_of_Rome']",Perhaps we shall have a Negro pope . . . ”
1932,pope,pope,NOUN,NN,pope.n.01,pope.n.01,religion,religion.n.02,hyponyms,the head of the Roman Catholic Church,,"['pope', 'Catholic_Pope', 'Roman_Catholic_Pope', 'pontiff', 'Holy_Father', 'Vicar_of_Christ', 'Bishop_of_Rome']",He has practically no chance of becoming pope .
1949,pope,pope,NOUN,NN,pope.n.01,pope.n.01,religion,religion.n.02,hyponyms,the head of the Roman Catholic Church,,"['pope', 'Catholic_Pope', 'Roman_Catholic_Pope', 'pontiff', 'Holy_Father', 'Vicar_of_Christ', 'Bishop_of_Rome']",and we shall talk and talk and talk until we have elected ourselves a pope ... ”
1951,stomps,stomp,NOUN,NNS,stomp.n.01,stomp.n.01,music,dancing.n.01,hyponyms,a dance involving a rhythmical stamping step,,['stomp'],"“ Personally , ” Adelaide says to her estranged husband as the doors close behind them and Marozia , the cook and maidservant , cocks her ear while pretending to adjust a trinity of gladiolas ( today the wine merchants bring giant kegs of new wine from the hill towns to the neighborhood and even the wine merchant , a count from the Friulana region — he has heart trouble and stomps about angrily with a cane — even the wine merchant count climbs on the huge trailer and blows into the long rubber tube that conducts the wine from the barrels to other barrels in the catacomb twilight of the cantina , and his son , who has just bought a racy white speedster - roadster , jokes with the truckdriver"
1954,pope,pope,NOUN,NN,pope.n.01,pope.n.01,religion,religion.n.02,hyponyms,the head of the Roman Catholic Church,,"['pope', 'Catholic_Pope', 'Roman_Catholic_Pope', 'pontiff', 'Holy_Father', 'Vicar_of_Christ', 'Bishop_of_Rome']","“ Personally , I hope that they elect a foreign pope , or at least a pope who is not an Italian ... because as long as we have an Italian pope we will not have a head of state to govern this Italian nation , but only a loud - talking little brother , afraid of the dark and the Light . . . ”"
1954,pope,pope,NOUN,NN,pope.n.01,pope.n.01,religion,religion.n.02,hyponyms,the head of the Roman Catholic Church,,"['pope', 'Catholic_Pope', 'Roman_Catholic_Pope', 'pontiff', 'Holy_Father', 'Vicar_of_Christ', 'Bishop_of_Rome']","“ Personally , I hope that they elect a foreign pope , or at least a pope who is not an Italian ... because as long as we have an Italian pope we will not have a head of state to govern this Italian nation , but only a loud - talking little brother , afraid of the dark and the Light . . . ”"
1954,pope,pope,NOUN,NN,pope.n.01,pope.n.01,religion,religion.n.02,hyponyms,the head of the Roman Catholic Church,,"['pope', 'Catholic_Pope', 'Roman_Catholic_Pope', 'pontiff', 'Holy_Father', 'Vicar_of_Christ', 'Bishop_of_Rome']","“ Personally , I hope that they elect a foreign pope , or at least a pope who is not an Italian ... because as long as we have an Italian pope we will not have a head of state to govern this Italian nation , but only a loud - talking little brother , afraid of the dark and the Light . . . ”"
1954,brother,brother,NOUN,NN,brother.n.05,brother.n.05,religion,religion.n.02,in_topic_domains,(Roman Catholic Church) a title given to a monk and used as form of address,a Benedictine Brother,['Brother'],"“ Personally , I hope that they elect a foreign pope , or at least a pope who is not an Italian ... because as long as we have an Italian pope we will not have a head of state to govern this Italian nation , but only a loud - talking little brother , afraid of the dark and the Light . . . ”"
1962,Pope,Pope,PROPN,NNP,pope.n.01,pope.n.01,religion,religion.n.02,hyponyms,the head of the Roman Catholic Church,,"['pope', 'Catholic_Pope', 'Roman_Catholic_Pope', 'pontiff', 'Holy_Father', 'Vicar_of_Christ', 'Bishop_of_Rome']",“ The new Pope ?
1982,temples,temple,NOUN,NNS,temple.n.03,temple.n.03,religion,temple.n.03,original,an edifice devoted to special or exalted purposes,,['temple'],"The temples , the marble columns , Greece , all that mythology , the postcards ."
1985,dancing,dancing,NOUN,NN,dancing.n.01,dancing.n.01,music,dancing.n.01,original,taking a series of rhythmical steps (and movements) in time to music,,"['dancing', 'dance', 'terpsichore', 'saltation']",But you are about to become the father of an American Negro dancing girl ’s child .
1987,hated,hate,VERB,VBD,hate.v.01,hate.v.01,violence,hate.v.01,original,dislike intensely; feel antipathy or aversion towards,I hate Mexican food. She detests politicians,"['hate', 'detest']",I hated Greece !
1992,Pope,Pope,PROPN,NNP,pope.n.01,pope.n.01,religion,religion.n.02,hyponyms,the head of the Roman Catholic Church,,"['pope', 'Catholic_Pope', 'Roman_Catholic_Pope', 'pontiff', 'Holy_Father', 'Vicar_of_Christ', 'Bishop_of_Rome']",The new Pope calls himself Paul .
1997,hated,hate,VERB,VBD,hate.v.01,hate.v.01,violence,hate.v.01,original,dislike intensely; feel antipathy or aversion towards,I hate Mexican food. She detests politicians,"['hate', 'detest']",I hated that sinister purple sea .
1999,temples,temple,NOUN,NNS,temple.n.01,temple.n.01,religion,temple.n.01,original,place of worship consisting of an edifice for the worship of a deity,,['temple'],I am sure the marble temples were a kind of joke .
2083,church,church,NOUN,NN,church.n.02,church.n.02,religion,church.n.02,original,a place for public (especially Christian) worship,the church was empty,"['church', 'church_building']","Acting on some strange impulse , a call , I have gone twice to the church Santa Maria della Pace , to see Raphael ’s painting “ The Sibyls , ” perhaps to pray for peace : both times the church was closed ."
2083,church,church,NOUN,NN,church.n.02,church.n.02,religion,church.n.02,original,a place for public (especially Christian) worship,the church was empty,"['church', 'church_building']","Acting on some strange impulse , a call , I have gone twice to the church Santa Maria della Pace , to see Raphael ’s painting “ The Sibyls , ” perhaps to pray for peace : both times the church was closed ."
2084,church,church,NOUN,NN,church.n.02,church.n.02,religion,church.n.02,original,a place for public (especially Christian) worship,the church was empty,"['church', 'church_building']","Yesterday evening , Sunday , I went to S. Maria della Pace with my wife ; the green twin doors were closed ; I went to the open street door of the Teutonic College ; the beefy doorman of the Teutonic College was confabulating with black - mustached men in a black auto mobile with a Genovese license plate , and said to me , ‘ We have nothing to do with that church Santa Maria della Pace , you must go ask the doorman of Number 5 . ’"
2085,church,church,NOUN,NN,church.n.02,church.n.02,religion,church.n.02,original,a place for public (especially Christian) worship,the church was empty,"['church', 'church_building']","The doorman of Number 5 is a brilliantined - haired young man who is tortured by the idea that he deserves a better profession ; the church , he says , is open only from 7:30 to 8:30 in the morning and more or less the same hours in the evening ; since this day is Sunday — Not the Sabbath : I think — S. Maria della Pace is closed even at this evening hour , so I shall get up early tomorrow morning , first go to call upon Her Radio - active Majesty , Queen of Queens , Sister and Mother to Leo - nardo - Bramante - Raphael - Michelangelo , for the first time in my life I shall bow my head and pray to a madonna , then I shall return to my Piemonte - Mazzini - bureaucraticsaur quarter of Rome and buy my morning paper and read who shall have won the Liston - Patterson fight ."
2093,temples,temple,NOUN,NNS,temple.n.03,temple.n.03,religion,temple.n.03,original,an edifice devoted to special or exalted purposes,,['temple'],"English aesthetes without water closets when the moon is high , staring at temples ..."
2099,believe,believe,VERB,VB,believe.v.04,believe.v.04,religion,religion.n.01,in_topic_domains,follow a credo; have a faith; be a believer,"When you hear his sermons, you will be able to believe, too",['believe'],Do you believe in God ? ”
2099,God,God,PROPN,NNP,god.n.01,god.n.01,religion,god.n.01,original,the supernatural being conceived as the perfect and omnipotent and omniscient originator and ruler of the universe; the object of worship in monotheistic religions,,"['God', 'Supreme_Being']",Do you believe in God ? ”
2101,believe,believe,VERB,VB,believe.v.04,believe.v.04,religion,religion.n.01,in_topic_domains,follow a credo; have a faith; be a believer,"When you hear his sermons, you will be able to believe, too",['believe'],Do I believe in God ? . . .
2101,God,God,PROPN,NNP,god.n.01,god.n.01,religion,god.n.01,original,the supernatural being conceived as the perfect and omnipotent and omniscient originator and ruler of the universe; the object of worship in monotheistic religions,,"['God', 'Supreme_Being']",Do I believe in God ? . . .
2103,believe,believe,VERB,VB,believe.v.04,believe.v.04,religion,religion.n.01,in_topic_domains,follow a credo; have a faith; be a believer,"When you hear his sermons, you will be able to believe, too",['believe'],But is it necessary to believe in God ? ”
2103,God,God,PROPN,NNP,god.n.01,god.n.01,religion,god.n.01,original,the supernatural being conceived as the perfect and omnipotent and omniscient originator and ruler of the universe; the object of worship in monotheistic religions,,"['God', 'Supreme_Being']",But is it necessary to believe in God ? ”
2104,theology,theology,NOUN,NN,theology.n.01,theology.n.01,religion,theology.n.01,original,the rational and systematic study of religion and its influences and of the nature of religious truth,,"['theology', 'divinity']","“ When our husbands are away , we women shall play — theology and religion , we go to dressmakers and put on masks and take off masks and think of letters we should receive , and letters we should write . . ."
2104,religion,religion,NOUN,NN,religion.n.01,religion.n.01,religion,religion.n.01,original,a strong belief in a supernatural power or powers that control human destiny,he lost his faith but not his morality,"['religion', 'faith', 'religious_belief']","“ When our husbands are away , we women shall play — theology and religion , we go to dressmakers and put on masks and take off masks and think of letters we should receive , and letters we should write . . ."
2105,God,God,PROPN,NNP,god.n.01,god.n.01,religion,god.n.01,original,the supernatural being conceived as the perfect and omnipotent and omniscient originator and ruler of the universe; the object of worship in monotheistic religions,,"['God', 'Supreme_Being']","When our husbands are away , we women shall pray , we shall play with the idea of God ! . . ."
2143,hate,hate,VERB,VBP,hate.v.01,hate.v.01,violence,hate.v.01,original,dislike intensely; feel antipathy or aversion towards,I hate Mexican food. She detests politicians,"['hate', 'detest']",“ She knows I hate the idea of Africa . . . ”
2167,dancing,dancing,NOUN,NN,dancing.n.01,dancing.n.01,music,dancing.n.01,original,taking a series of rhythmical steps (and movements) in time to music,,"['dancing', 'dance', 'terpsichore', 'saltation']",I am happy for your American Negro dancing girl ! . . .
2177,killed,kill,VERB,VBD,kill.v.01,kill.v.01,violence,kill.v.01,original,"cause to die; put to death, usually intentionally or knowingly",This man killed several people when he tried to rob a bank. The farmer killed a pig for the holidays,['kill'],It killed our mother .
2190,dancing,dancing,NOUN,NN,dancing.n.01,dancing.n.01,music,dancing.n.01,original,taking a series of rhythmical steps (and movements) in time to music,,"['dancing', 'dance', 'terpsichore', 'saltation']",Does your American Negro dancing girl look like an African ? ”
2198,sing,sing,VERB,VB,sing.v.02,sing.v.02,music,music.n.01,in_topic_domains,produce tones with the voice,She was singing while she was cooking. My brother sings very well,['sing'],"Then , she said , she makes them sing . . ."
2213,dancing,dancing,NOUN,NN,dancing.n.01,dancing.n.01,music,dancing.n.01,original,taking a series of rhythmical steps (and movements) in time to music,,"['dancing', 'dance', 'terpsichore', 'saltation']","Is it because I feel superior ( motherly superior ) because you could not have a child with me , but are about to have one with an American Negro dancing girl ..."
2227,swords,sword,NOUN,NNS,sword.n.01,sword.n.01,violence,weapon.n.01,hyponyms,a cutting or thrusting weapon that has a long metal blade and a hilt with a hand guard,,"['sword', 'blade', 'brand', 'steel']","If you are the protagonist , if you must wear the blond wig , the shining boots , if you and your dauntless comrades must dash recklessly from one conquest to another , laughing and drinking , singing your love ballads under the moon and wiping the sticky blood from your exquisitely wrought swords , stay in the dream and be not a coward ..."
2247,AGGRESSION,AGGRESSION,PROPN,NNP,aggression.n.04,aggression.n.04,violence,aggression.n.04,original,the act of initiating hostilities,,['aggression'],NON - AGGRESSION PACT IS STRESSED . . .
2248,KILLS,KILLS,PROPN,NNP,killing.n.02,killing.n.02,violence,killing.n.02,original,the act of terminating a life,,"['killing', 'kill', 'putting_to_death']","“ QUAKE KILLS ABOUT 2,000 , RAZES SKOPLJE , YUGOSLAVIA ."
2249,killing,kill,VERB,VBG,kill.v.01,kill.v.01,violence,kill.v.01,original,"cause to die; put to death, usually intentionally or knowingly",This man killed several people when he tried to rob a bank. The farmer killed a pig for the holidays,['kill'],"Belgrade , July 26 — An earthquake devastated the slumbering Macedonian capital of Skoplje early today , killing and injuring thousands and causing heavy property damage ."
2252,EXCERPTS,EXCERPTS,PROPN,NNP,excerpt.n.01,excerpt.n.01,music,music.n.01,hyponyms,a passage selected from a larger work,he presented excerpts from William James' philosophical writings,"['excerpt', 'excerption', 'extract', 'selection']",MARILYN MONROE EXCERPTS FROM 15 FILMS ON IN PARIS .
2274,singers,singer,NOUN,NNS,singer.n.01,singer.n.01,music,musician.n.01,hyponyms,a person who sings,,"['singer', 'vocalist', 'vocalizer', 'vocaliser']","Carmine Galione , Rooster Red , shoe - shine boys and barbers , fraud and scandal , the miracle of blood , street singers : San Carlo Opera House !"
2275,opera,opera,NOUN,NN,opera.n.01,opera.n.01,music,music.n.01,hyponyms,a drama set to music; consists of singing with orchestral accompaniment and an orchestral overture and interludes,,['opera'],"There I went with Gottfried von Einem for the premiere of his opera Dantons Tod , the derisive laughter of Neapolitan duchesses and dukes ."
2281,clean,clean,ADJ,JJ,clean.a.06,clean.a.06,religion,religion.n.01,in_topic_domains,ritually clean or pure,,['clean'],I again explained the strange esoteric meaning of the offering of the fish head on the clean white plate .
2288,hate,hate,VERB,VBP,hate.v.01,hate.v.01,violence,hate.v.01,original,dislike intensely; feel antipathy or aversion towards,I hate Mexican food. She detests politicians,"['hate', 'detest']",", he spoke no lingua franca , he was enthusiastic about Greece , enthusiastic about the urine - odored second - class compartment , until a Hunter entered with a hunting hound called Cerebus that silenced even the old peasant women who hate both men and hate the sea and the land . )"
2288,hate,hate,VERB,VBP,hate.v.01,hate.v.01,violence,hate.v.01,original,dislike intensely; feel antipathy or aversion towards,I hate Mexican food. She detests politicians,"['hate', 'detest']",", he spoke no lingua franca , he was enthusiastic about Greece , enthusiastic about the urine - odored second - class compartment , until a Hunter entered with a hunting hound called Cerebus that silenced even the old peasant women who hate both men and hate the sea and the land . )"
2344,Lord,Lord,PROPN,NNP,godhead.n.01,godhead.n.01,religion,godhead.n.01,original,terms referring to the Judeo-Christian God,,"['Godhead', 'Lord', 'Creator', 'Maker', 'Divine', 'God_Almighty', 'Almighty', 'Jehovah']",My Lord !
2369,brother,brother,NOUN,NN,brother.n.02,brother.n.02,religion,religion.n.01,in_topic_domains,a male person who is a fellow member (of a fraternity or religion or other group),none of his brothers would betray him,['brother'],No one is more powerful than the low - paid cemetery workers now as they hoist the casket to a nice high niche in the unfinished edifice of reinforced concrete : this is my brother - in - law ’s monument .
2380,blade,blade,NOUN,NN,sword.n.01,sword.n.01,violence,weapon.n.01,hyponyms,a cutting or thrusting weapon that has a long metal blade and a hilt with a hand guard,,"['sword', 'blade', 'brand', 'steel']","Furiously , Annunziata , Mario ’s wife , strikes the blade of her scythe against the stone railing of the steps leading up to the door of her house ."
2388,pistol,pistol,NOUN,NN,pistol.n.01,pistol.n.01,violence,weapon.n.01,hyponyms,a firearm that is held and fired with one hand,,"['pistol', 'handgun', 'side_arm', 'shooting_iron']",He is wearing a pistol holster .
2390,pistol,pistol,NOUN,NN,pistol.n.01,pistol.n.01,violence,weapon.n.01,hyponyms,a firearm that is held and fired with one hand,,"['pistol', 'handgun', 'side_arm', 'shooting_iron']",Why is he so deliberately showing us this empty pistol holster ?
2409,BUDDHIST,BUDDHIST,PROPN,NNP,buddhist.n.01,buddhist.n.01,religion,religion.n.02,member_meronyms,one who follows the teachings of Buddha,,['Buddhist'],BUDDHIST PRIEST AND NUN SUICIDES MIDST FLAMES . . .
2412,music,music,NOUN,NN,music.n.01,music.n.01,music,music.n.01,original,an artistic form of auditory communication incorporating instrumental or vocal tones in a structured and continuous manner,,['music'],"Christopher , a music student from Basel , comes out of the villa and sits down on the park bench opposite mine ."
2429,kill,kill,VERB,VB,kill.v.01,kill.v.01,violence,kill.v.01,original,"cause to die; put to death, usually intentionally or knowingly",This man killed several people when he tried to rob a bank. The farmer killed a pig for the holidays,['kill'],"Last night a veterinarian came to kill the Count ’s bastard watchdog which , for no apparent reason , had begun to attack the guinea fowl , killing but not eating six of them ."
2429,attack,attack,VERB,VB,assail.v.01,assail.v.01,violence,assail.v.01,original,attack someone physically or emotionally,The mugger assaulted the woman. Nightmares assailed him regularly,"['assail', 'assault', 'set_on', 'attack']","Last night a veterinarian came to kill the Count ’s bastard watchdog which , for no apparent reason , had begun to attack the guinea fowl , killing but not eating six of them ."
2429,killing,kill,VERB,VBG,kill.v.01,kill.v.01,violence,kill.v.01,original,"cause to die; put to death, usually intentionally or knowingly",This man killed several people when he tried to rob a bank. The farmer killed a pig for the holidays,['kill'],"Last night a veterinarian came to kill the Count ’s bastard watchdog which , for no apparent reason , had begun to attack the guinea fowl , killing but not eating six of them ."
2430,notes,note,NOUN,NNS,note.n.03,note.n.03,music,music.n.01,member_meronyms,a notation representing the pitch and duration of a musical sound,the singer held the note too long,"['note', 'musical_note', 'tone']","Surrounded now by these quietly lyrical grace notes of the Count ’s paradise park , I find it strange that people should become weary of life , should want to go to sleep and die ."
2433,dance,dance,VERB,VB,dance.v.01,dance.v.01,music,dance.v.01,original,move in a graceful and rhythmical way,The young girl danced into the room,['dance'],"We shall eat the turkeys and guinea hens , the dog shall be buried , the Count ’s villa is filled with photographs of mustached kings , grand dukes , princes and counts , Kaiser Wilhelm ’s triple - barreled horn , a book entitled 11 Diavolo on the bookshelf next to La Sacra Bibbia , English bathtubs high and classily durable as Rolls - Royces , faded silk lamp shades , Persian rugs to mute our exuberant footsteps as we pass from one memory - cluttered room to the next , Ben Johnson , Christopher Schmidt , Pryce Zimmerman and I — we are always hungry , we wait for the tea - time bell to ring , the peach trees are small and slender , are overloaded with rose - fuzzed fruit , the flowers seem to dance , at night there is the feeling of dancing in the air , ghosts , invisible but benevolent presences stir rhythmically , sedately , I hear distant earthquakes , flowers open to the siren call of the invisible night singers , dogs howl in the distant Etruscan - haunted hills , unheard messages bombard the park from uncharted stars , I go to the well . . ."
2433,dancing,dancing,NOUN,NN,dancing.n.01,dancing.n.01,music,dancing.n.01,original,taking a series of rhythmical steps (and movements) in time to music,,"['dancing', 'dance', 'terpsichore', 'saltation']","We shall eat the turkeys and guinea hens , the dog shall be buried , the Count ’s villa is filled with photographs of mustached kings , grand dukes , princes and counts , Kaiser Wilhelm ’s triple - barreled horn , a book entitled 11 Diavolo on the bookshelf next to La Sacra Bibbia , English bathtubs high and classily durable as Rolls - Royces , faded silk lamp shades , Persian rugs to mute our exuberant footsteps as we pass from one memory - cluttered room to the next , Ben Johnson , Christopher Schmidt , Pryce Zimmerman and I — we are always hungry , we wait for the tea - time bell to ring , the peach trees are small and slender , are overloaded with rose - fuzzed fruit , the flowers seem to dance , at night there is the feeling of dancing in the air , ghosts , invisible but benevolent presences stir rhythmically , sedately , I hear distant earthquakes , flowers open to the siren call of the invisible night singers , dogs howl in the distant Etruscan - haunted hills , unheard messages bombard the park from uncharted stars , I go to the well . . ."
2433,singers,singer,NOUN,NNS,singer.n.01,singer.n.01,music,musician.n.01,hyponyms,a person who sings,,"['singer', 'vocalist', 'vocalizer', 'vocaliser']","We shall eat the turkeys and guinea hens , the dog shall be buried , the Count ’s villa is filled with photographs of mustached kings , grand dukes , princes and counts , Kaiser Wilhelm ’s triple - barreled horn , a book entitled 11 Diavolo on the bookshelf next to La Sacra Bibbia , English bathtubs high and classily durable as Rolls - Royces , faded silk lamp shades , Persian rugs to mute our exuberant footsteps as we pass from one memory - cluttered room to the next , Ben Johnson , Christopher Schmidt , Pryce Zimmerman and I — we are always hungry , we wait for the tea - time bell to ring , the peach trees are small and slender , are overloaded with rose - fuzzed fruit , the flowers seem to dance , at night there is the feeling of dancing in the air , ghosts , invisible but benevolent presences stir rhythmically , sedately , I hear distant earthquakes , flowers open to the siren call of the invisible night singers , dogs howl in the distant Etruscan - haunted hills , unheard messages bombard the park from uncharted stars , I go to the well . . ."
2433,bombard,bombard,VERB,VBP,bombard.v.03,bombard.v.03,violence,attack.v.02,hyponyms,"address with continuously or persistently, as if with a barrage",The speaker was barraged by an angry audience. The governor was bombarded with requests to grant a pardon to the convicted killer,"['bombard', 'barrage']","We shall eat the turkeys and guinea hens , the dog shall be buried , the Count ’s villa is filled with photographs of mustached kings , grand dukes , princes and counts , Kaiser Wilhelm ’s triple - barreled horn , a book entitled 11 Diavolo on the bookshelf next to La Sacra Bibbia , English bathtubs high and classily durable as Rolls - Royces , faded silk lamp shades , Persian rugs to mute our exuberant footsteps as we pass from one memory - cluttered room to the next , Ben Johnson , Christopher Schmidt , Pryce Zimmerman and I — we are always hungry , we wait for the tea - time bell to ring , the peach trees are small and slender , are overloaded with rose - fuzzed fruit , the flowers seem to dance , at night there is the feeling of dancing in the air , ghosts , invisible but benevolent presences stir rhythmically , sedately , I hear distant earthquakes , flowers open to the siren call of the invisible night singers , dogs howl in the distant Etruscan - haunted hills , unheard messages bombard the park from uncharted stars , I go to the well . . ."
2434,cloister,cloister,NOUN,NN,cloister.n.02,cloister.n.02,religion,religion.n.01,in_topic_domains,a courtyard with covered walks (as in religious institutions),,['cloister'],The well is enclosed in a cloister of ancient trees and flowering bushes .
2436,GOD,GOD,PROPN,NNP,god.n.01,god.n.01,religion,god.n.01,original,the supernatural being conceived as the perfect and omnipotent and omniscient originator and ruler of the universe; the object of worship in monotheistic religions,,"['God', 'Supreme_Being']","The water can only be felt , in the humid August heat the water smells of corruption and death , the well has been sealed for over a hundred years , there is a plaque on the side of the well which reads : DAWN WAS BREAKING ON THE MORNING OF JUNE 26 1861 AND TWO YOUNG LOVERS VIOLENTLY SOUGHT IN THE WATERS OF THIS CISTERN UNION IN DEATH FILIPPO AND MARIA GOD SHALL FORGIVE YOU FOR GREAT WAS YOUR LOVE"
2438,Benedictine,Benedictine,PROPN,NNP,benedictine.n.01,benedictine.n.01,religion,religion.n.02,member_meronyms,a monk or nun belonging to the order founded by Saint Benedict,,['Benedictine'],The Badia was formerly a monastery for the Benedictine monks .
2440,abbey,abbey,NOUN,NN,abbey.n.01,abbey.n.01,religion,church.n.02,hyponyms,a church associated with a monastery or convent,,['abbey'],"The Badia , or abbey , is haunted ."
2441,singing,singing,NOUN,NN,singing.n.01,singing.n.01,music,music.n.01,hyponyms,the act of singing vocal music,,"['singing', 'vocalizing']",Occasionally at night the monks can be heard singing in procession .
2443,Cardinal,Cardinal,PROPN,NNP,cardinal.n.01,cardinal.n.01,religion,religion.n.02,hyponyms,(Roman Catholic Church) one of a group of more than 100 prominent bishops in the Sacred College who advise the Pope and elect new Popes,,['cardinal'],The old firm - fleshed marchesa talks on and on : Cardinal Rugambwa should have been elected pope — how decoroso he
2443,pope,pope,NOUN,NN,pope.n.01,pope.n.01,religion,religion.n.02,hyponyms,the head of the Roman Catholic Church,,"['pope', 'Catholic_Pope', 'Roman_Catholic_Pope', 'pontiff', 'Holy_Father', 'Vicar_of_Christ', 'Bishop_of_Rome']",The old firm - fleshed marchesa talks on and on : Cardinal Rugambwa should have been elected pope — how decoroso he
2489,gun,gun,NOUN,NN,gun.n.01,gun.n.01,violence,weapon.n.01,hyponyms,a weapon that discharges a missile at high velocity (especially from a metal tube or barrel),,['gun'],"Standing there heavily off balance , he listens to the news commentator chattering away about the March , then says , as woolly clusters of my hair fall to the floor like a sacrifice : “ I do n’t know what these white folks is scared about — they might call this the Revolution of 1963 , but you can bet your bottom dollar , ai n’t a single darkie out of the thousands and thousands pourin ’ into the city got anything that even halfway looks like a gun ! ”"
2493,notes,note,NOUN,NNS,note.n.03,note.n.03,music,music.n.01,member_meronyms,a notation representing the pitch and duration of a musical sound,the singer held the note too long,"['note', 'musical_note', 'tone']","New Year ’s Eve , at midnight , I threw a pair of old shoes out the window , then blew two notes on my terra cotta flute in the general direction of the soaring full moon , then Emma , Tatina and I danced to music pouring out of the television set ."
2493,flute,flute,NOUN,NN,flute.n.01,flute.n.01,music,musical_instrument.n.01,hyponyms,a high-pitched woodwind instrument; a slender tube closed at one end with finger holes on one end and an opening near the closed end across which the breath is blown,,"['flute', 'transverse_flute']","New Year ’s Eve , at midnight , I threw a pair of old shoes out the window , then blew two notes on my terra cotta flute in the general direction of the soaring full moon , then Emma , Tatina and I danced to music pouring out of the television set ."
2493,danced,dance,VERB,VBD,dance.v.02,dance.v.02,music,dancing.n.01,in_topic_domains,move in a pattern; usually to musical accompaniment; do or perform a dance,My husband and I like to dance at home to the radio,"['dance', 'trip_the_light_fantastic', 'trip_the_light_fantastic_toe']","New Year ’s Eve , at midnight , I threw a pair of old shoes out the window , then blew two notes on my terra cotta flute in the general direction of the soaring full moon , then Emma , Tatina and I danced to music pouring out of the television set ."
2493,music,music,NOUN,NN,music.n.01,music.n.01,music,music.n.01,original,an artistic form of auditory communication incorporating instrumental or vocal tones in a structured and continuous manner,,['music'],"New Year ’s Eve , at midnight , I threw a pair of old shoes out the window , then blew two notes on my terra cotta flute in the general direction of the soaring full moon , then Emma , Tatina and I danced to music pouring out of the television set ."
2495,Pope,Pope,PROPN,NNP,pope.n.01,pope.n.01,religion,religion.n.02,hyponyms,the head of the Roman Catholic Church,,"['pope', 'Catholic_Pope', 'Roman_Catholic_Pope', 'pontiff', 'Holy_Father', 'Vicar_of_Christ', 'Bishop_of_Rome']",Tomorrow Pope Paul goes to the Holy Land .
2497,Christians,Christians,PROPN,NNPS,christian.n.01,christian.n.01,religion,religion.n.02,member_meronyms,a religious person who believes Jesus is the Christ and who is a member of a Christian denomination,,['Christian'],Christians AND MOSLEMS WAIT WITH EQUAL TREPIDATION
2497,MOSLEMS,MOSLEMS,PROPN,NNP,muslim.n.01,muslim.n.01,religion,islam.n.01,member_meronyms,a believer in or follower of Islam,,"['Muslim', 'Moslem']",Christians AND MOSLEMS WAIT WITH EQUAL TREPIDATION
2500,POPE,POPE,PROPN,NNP,pope.n.01,pope.n.01,religion,religion.n.02,hyponyms,the head of the Roman Catholic Church,,"['pope', 'Catholic_Pope', 'Roman_Catholic_Pope', 'pontiff', 'Holy_Father', 'Vicar_of_Christ', 'Bishop_of_Rome']",PRESS CONFERENCE OF KING HUSSEIN — PERHAPS ON MOUNT ZION THE MEETING BETWEEN THE POPE AND THE HEAD RABBI NISSIM . . .
2501,Saint,Saint,PROPN,NNP,saint.n.01,saint.n.01,religion,deity.n.01,hyponyms,a person who has died and has been declared a saint by canonization,,['saint'],Pontius Pilate or Saint Francis ?
2502,clean,clean,ADJ,JJ,clean.a.06,clean.a.06,religion,religion.n.01,in_topic_domains,ritually clean or pure,,['clean'],The Holy Land is an ugly vineyard devastated by clean desert winds and petty family quarrels over property and wills .
2503,Pope,Pope,PROPN,NNP,pope.n.01,pope.n.01,religion,religion.n.02,hyponyms,the head of the Roman Catholic Church,,"['pope', 'Catholic_Pope', 'Roman_Catholic_Pope', 'pontiff', 'Holy_Father', 'Vicar_of_Christ', 'Bishop_of_Rome']",Will the Pope “ wash ” his hands in dirt ?
2504,Bible,Bible,PROPN,NNP,bible.n.01,bible.n.01,religion,bible.n.01,original,the sacred writings of the Christian religions,he went to carry the Word to the heathen,"['Bible', 'Christian_Bible', 'Book', 'Good_Book', 'Holy_Scripture', 'Holy_Writ', 'Scripture', 'Word_of_God', 'Word']","Suddenly now as I remember the shortest verse in the Bible , “ Jesus wept .. . ” , the legs of the thronelike barber chair I am sitting on give away"
2510,clean,clean,ADJ,JJ,clean.a.06,clean.a.06,religion,religion.n.01,in_topic_domains,ritually clean or pure,,['clean'],"The sun shines with diamond brightness on Rome , but a clean cold wind torments the palm trees across the street ."
2510,torments,torment,VERB,VBZ,torment.v.01,torment.v.01,violence,pain.v.02,hyponyms,torment emotionally or mentally,,"['torment', 'torture', 'excruciate', 'rack']","The sun shines with diamond brightness on Rome , but a clean cold wind torments the palm trees across the street ."
2513,Pope,Pope,PROPN,NNP,pope.n.01,pope.n.01,religion,religion.n.02,hyponyms,the head of the Roman Catholic Church,,"['pope', 'Catholic_Pope', 'Roman_Catholic_Pope', 'pontiff', 'Holy_Father', 'Vicar_of_Christ', 'Bishop_of_Rome']","While Emma and Tatina , who was still angry with me for staying out until two o’clock in the morning , studiously , rebelliously , did House Work , I watched the Pope leave for the Holy Land ."
2519,atheist,atheist,NOUN,NN,atheist.n.01,atheist.n.01,religion,atheist.n.01,original,someone who does not believe in the existence of a god,,['atheist'],New Year ’s Eve Alex again declared himself an atheist .
2520,assassination,assassination,NOUN,NN,assassination.n.02,assassination.n.02,violence,murder.n.01,hyponyms,murder of a public figure by surprise attack,,['assassination'],Last night hours and hours of idle talk with V. and another young Sicilian about the Mafia and political assassination .
2521,believe,believe,VERB,VB,believe.v.04,believe.v.04,religion,religion.n.01,in_topic_domains,follow a credo; have a faith; be a believer,"When you hear his sermons, you will be able to believe, too",['believe'],Does Antonio believe in God ?
2521,God,God,PROPN,NNP,god.n.01,god.n.01,religion,god.n.01,original,the supernatural being conceived as the perfect and omnipotent and omniscient originator and ruler of the universe; the object of worship in monotheistic religions,,"['God', 'Supreme_Being']",Does Antonio believe in God ?
2526,gun,gun,NOUN,NN,gun.n.01,gun.n.01,violence,weapon.n.01,hyponyms,a weapon that discharges a missile at high velocity (especially from a metal tube or barrel),,['gun'],In the terra cotta plate of gun - metal black olives there was one small segment of a garlic .
2527,God,God,PROPN,NNP,god.n.01,god.n.01,religion,god.n.01,original,the supernatural being conceived as the perfect and omnipotent and omniscient originator and ruler of the universe; the object of worship in monotheistic religions,,"['God', 'Supreme_Being']",God and the Devil .
2527,Devil,Devil,PROPN,NNP,satan.n.01,satan.n.01,religion,religion.n.01,in_topic_domains,(Judeo-Christian and Islamic religions) chief spirit of evil and adversary of God; tempter of mankind; master of Hell,,"['Satan', 'Old_Nick', 'Devil', 'Lucifer', 'Beelzebub', 'the_Tempter', 'Prince_of_Darkness']",God and the Devil .
2529,Pope,Pope,PROPN,NNP,pope.n.01,pope.n.01,religion,religion.n.02,hyponyms,the head of the Roman Catholic Church,,"['pope', 'Catholic_Pope', 'Roman_Catholic_Pope', 'pontiff', 'Holy_Father', 'Vicar_of_Christ', 'Bishop_of_Rome']","Then I repeated the thought I had yesterday : I said that I hoped Pope Paul would , to repair the historical damage of Pontius Pilate washing his hands in water , wash his hands in oil ."
2533,Pope,Pope,PROPN,NNP,pope.n.01,pope.n.01,religion,religion.n.02,hyponyms,the head of the Roman Catholic Church,,"['pope', 'Catholic_Pope', 'Roman_Catholic_Pope', 'pontiff', 'Holy_Father', 'Vicar_of_Christ', 'Bishop_of_Rome']",Today even the Roman cynics are uneasy without their Pope . . . )
2535,pontiff,pontiff,NOUN,NN,pope.n.01,pope.n.01,religion,religion.n.02,hyponyms,the head of the Roman Catholic Church,,"['pope', 'Catholic_Pope', 'Roman_Catholic_Pope', 'pontiff', 'Holy_Father', 'Vicar_of_Christ', 'Bishop_of_Rome']",This morning ’s headline in ll Messaggero proclaims : the pontiff has PRAYED ON THE SEPULCHER OF CHRIST . . .
2536,POPE,POPE,PROPN,NNP,pope.n.01,pope.n.01,religion,religion.n.02,hyponyms,the head of the Roman Catholic Church,,"['pope', 'Catholic_Pope', 'Roman_Catholic_Pope', 'pontiff', 'Holy_Father', 'Vicar_of_Christ', 'Bishop_of_Rome']",THE POPE ALONE MIDST
2543,singing,singing,NOUN,NN,singing.n.01,singing.n.01,music,music.n.01,hyponyms,the act of singing vocal music,,"['singing', 'vocalizing']",There is sporadic singing : “ We shall overcome someday ... ”
2560,Jewish,jewish,ADJ,JJ,jewish.a.01,jewish.a.01,religion,jewish.a.01,original,of or relating to Jews or their culture or religion,He is Jewish. a Jewish wedding,"['Jewish', 'Judaic']","There are pretty girls , Negro and white , there are too many ugly girls , untransformed , there are priests and preachers and ministers and missionary types with scrawny self - righteous necks , there are members of Catholic fraternal groups carrying vulgar madonna banners , there are militant Jewish ladies from the garment industry unions of New York ."
2565,singing,singing,NOUN,NN,singing.n.01,singing.n.01,music,music.n.01,hyponyms,the act of singing vocal music,,"['singing', 'vocalizing']",For a while longer I let myself be swept along with the flow of the mournfully singing crowd .
2577,Catholics,Catholics,PROPN,NNPS,catholic.n.01,catholic.n.01,religion,religion.n.02,member_meronyms,a member of a Catholic church,,['Catholic'],"The dramatic death of Kennedy , the socialists participating in the government with the Catholics , the “ pilgrimage ” of the Pope to the Holy Land , the journey of Chou En - lai to many countries of Africa , American grain being shipped and sold to the Soviet Union , the recent attitudes of Paris toward the nations of the Afro - Asian bloc and , in particular , toward China , and , today , the exceptional visit of Paul VI to the President of Italy , Segni . . . ” )"
2577,Pope,Pope,PROPN,NNP,pope.n.01,pope.n.01,religion,religion.n.02,hyponyms,the head of the Roman Catholic Church,,"['pope', 'Catholic_Pope', 'Roman_Catholic_Pope', 'pontiff', 'Holy_Father', 'Vicar_of_Christ', 'Bishop_of_Rome']","The dramatic death of Kennedy , the socialists participating in the government with the Catholics , the “ pilgrimage ” of the Pope to the Holy Land , the journey of Chou En - lai to many countries of Africa , American grain being shipped and sold to the Soviet Union , the recent attitudes of Paris toward the nations of the Afro - Asian bloc and , in particular , toward China , and , today , the exceptional visit of Paul VI to the President of Italy , Segni . . . ” )"
2577,Segni,Segni,PROPN,NNP,segno.n.01,segno.n.01,music,music.n.01,in_topic_domains,(music) a notation written at the beginning or end of a passage that is to be repeated,,['segno'],"The dramatic death of Kennedy , the socialists participating in the government with the Catholics , the “ pilgrimage ” of the Pope to the Holy Land , the journey of Chou En - lai to many countries of Africa , American grain being shipped and sold to the Soviet Union , the recent attitudes of Paris toward the nations of the Afro - Asian bloc and , in particular , toward China , and , today , the exceptional visit of Paul VI to the President of Italy , Segni . . . ” )"
2597,satyrs,satyr,NOUN,NNS,satyr.n.02,satyr.n.02,religion,deity.n.01,hyponyms,one of a class of woodland deities; attendant on Bacchus; identified with Roman fauns,,"['satyr', 'forest_god']",They grinned up at me like satyrs and spit on their hands .
2601,Cathedral,Cathedral,PROPN,NNP,cathedral.n.01,cathedral.n.01,religion,church.n.02,hyponyms,any large and important church,,['cathedral'],I went to the Cathedral .
2607,church,church,NOUN,NN,church.n.02,church.n.02,religion,church.n.02,original,a place for public (especially Christian) worship,the church was empty,"['church', 'church_building']",I went into a small church with a Romanesque facade where there was a presepio and an exhibi tion of the Bible .
2607,Bible,Bible,PROPN,NNP,bible.n.01,bible.n.01,religion,bible.n.01,original,the sacred writings of the Christian religions,he went to carry the Word to the heathen,"['Bible', 'Christian_Bible', 'Book', 'Good_Book', 'Holy_Scripture', 'Holy_Writ', 'Scripture', 'Word_of_God', 'Word']",I went into a small church with a Romanesque facade where there was a presepio and an exhibi tion of the Bible .
2614,electrocuted,electrocute,VERB,VBN,electrocute.v.02,electrocute.v.02,violence,kill.v.01,hyponyms,"kill by electrocution, as in the electric chair",The serial killer was electrocuted,"['electrocute', 'fry']","When my son returned to Rome , he told me that when the walnut tree fell down , it severed an electric wire , that the electric wire dropped down on a puddle of water , that a sow belonging to the peasants who had cut down the tree crossed the puddle and was electrocuted . . ."
2623,torture,torture,NOUN,NN,torture.n.05,torture.n.05,religion,religion.n.01,hyponyms,"the deliberate, systematic, or wanton infliction of physical or mental suffering by one or more persons in an attempt to force another person to yield information or to make a confession or for any other reason",it required unnatural torturing to extract a confession,"['torture', 'torturing']",On Via Giulia is located the Criminal Museum where elaborate instruments of torture are placed on display .
2624,Christian,christian,ADJ,JJ,christian.a.01,christian.a.01,religion,religion.n.01,in_topic_domains,relating to or characteristic of Christianity,Christian rites,['Christian'],One has the feeling that dark pre - Christian cults of death and sexual perversion still thrive in the dungeon dampness of those fortresslike palazzi of austere classical design .
2624,cults,cult,NOUN,NNS,cult.n.03,cult.n.03,religion,religion.n.02,hyponyms,"followers of an unorthodox, extremist, or false religion or sect who often live outside of conventional society under the direction of a charismatic leader",,['cult'],One has the feeling that dark pre - Christian cults of death and sexual perversion still thrive in the dungeon dampness of those fortresslike palazzi of austere classical design .
2646,ballet,ballet,NOUN,NN,ballet.n.01,ballet.n.01,music,dancing.n.01,hyponyms,a theatrical representation of a story that is performed to music by trained dancers,,"['ballet', 'concert_dance']","“ The day before the Saturnia docked at Lisbon , the boatswain told me that the night before , a ballet chorus of dolphins had danced around the ship ."
2646,danced,dance,VERB,VBN,dance.v.01,dance.v.01,music,dance.v.01,original,move in a graceful and rhythmical way,The young girl danced into the room,['dance'],"“ The day before the Saturnia docked at Lisbon , the boatswain told me that the night before , a ballet chorus of dolphins had danced around the ship ."
2649,killed,kill,VERB,VBD,kill.v.01,kill.v.01,violence,kill.v.01,original,"cause to die; put to death, usually intentionally or knowingly",This man killed several people when he tried to rob a bank. The farmer killed a pig for the holidays,['kill'],"The Spanish journalist , one of my table companions , nervously killed one of the cockroaches ."
2650,kill,kill,VERB,VB,kill.v.01,kill.v.01,violence,kill.v.01,original,"cause to die; put to death, usually intentionally or knowingly",This man killed several people when he tried to rob a bank. The farmer killed a pig for the holidays,['kill'],"But William L. , the mysterious cook who had worked for a family of Park Avenue millionaires for over thirty years and who was now going home to his native Barcelona to retire , he did n’t kill any of the cockroaches ."
2669,PISTOL,PISTOL,PROPN,NNP,pistol.n.01,pistol.n.01,violence,weapon.n.01,hyponyms,a firearm that is held and fired with one hand,,"['pistol', 'handgun', 'side_arm', 'shooting_iron']",EGYPTIAN ASSASSINATED WITH FOUR PISTOL SHOTS — The victim is the commerciante Faruk Chourbagi ( age 27 ) . .
2670,killed,kill,VERB,VBN,kill.v.01,kill.v.01,violence,kill.v.01,original,"cause to die; put to death, usually intentionally or knowingly",This man killed several people when he tried to rob a bank. The farmer killed a pig for the holidays,['kill'],".He was probably killed Saturday evening , in the office of Tricotex : the assassin threw acid in his face and then fired four shots at him face to face . . ."
2676,divine,divine,ADJ,JJ,divine.s.03,divine.s.03,religion,divine.s.03,original,being or having the nature of a god;  - J.G.Frazier; ; ;  - J.G.Saxe,the custom of killing the divine king upon any serious failure of his...powers. the divine will. the divine capacity for love. 'Tis wise to learn; 'tis God-like to create,"['divine', 'godlike']","Aeschylus was concerned with how the chain of evil could be ended , but it is not surprising that he saw it as a sort of divine or ‘ natural ’ law in operation . . ."
2697,torture,torture,NOUN,NN,torture.n.05,torture.n.05,religion,religion.n.01,hyponyms,"the deliberate, systematic, or wanton infliction of physical or mental suffering by one or more persons in an attempt to force another person to yield information or to make a confession or for any other reason",it required unnatural torturing to extract a confession,"['torture', 'torturing']",“ The bed in which Abraham Lincoln died is as small as a torture rack in the Criminal Museum in Rome .
2697,rack,rack,NOUN,NN,rack.n.05,rack.n.05,religion,religion.n.01,hyponyms,a form of torture in which pain is inflicted by stretching the body,,['rack'],“ The bed in which Abraham Lincoln died is as small as a torture rack in the Criminal Museum in Rome .
2717,advent,advent,PROPN,NNP,second_coming.n.01,second_coming.n.01,religion,theology.n.01,in_topic_domains,(Christian theology) the reappearance of Jesus as judge for the Last Judgment,,"['Second_Coming', 'Second_Coming_of_Christ', 'Second_Advent', 'Advent', 'Parousia']",advent .
2722,KILLED,kill,VERB,VBD,kill.v.01,kill.v.01,violence,kill.v.01,original,"cause to die; put to death, usually intentionally or knowingly",This man killed several people when he tried to rob a bank. The farmer killed a pig for the holidays,['kill'],THREE MISSIONARIES KILLED IN THE Congo — The Catholic mission at Mukedi burned : seven nuns saved . . . ” )
2723,Pope,Pope,PROPN,NNP,pope.n.01,pope.n.01,religion,religion.n.02,hyponyms,the head of the Roman Catholic Church,,"['pope', 'Catholic_Pope', 'Roman_Catholic_Pope', 'pontiff', 'Holy_Father', 'Vicar_of_Christ', 'Bishop_of_Rome']","“ I wanted to name the baby John , you know , because of Pope John , and John Kennedy , for what they both did ."
2724,weapon,weapon,NOUN,NN,weapon.n.02,weapon.n.02,violence,weapon.n.02,original,a means of persuading or arguing,he used all his conversational weapons,"['weapon', 'artillery']","Giving birth to whatever it was you mean by the ‘ third thing , ’ using the manly weapon of dialogue , in stead of the old womanly weapon of poison and the bargain - basement gun ."
2724,weapon,weapon,NOUN,NN,weapon.n.02,weapon.n.02,violence,weapon.n.02,original,a means of persuading or arguing,he used all his conversational weapons,"['weapon', 'artillery']","Giving birth to whatever it was you mean by the ‘ third thing , ’ using the manly weapon of dialogue , in stead of the old womanly weapon of poison and the bargain - basement gun ."
2724,gun,gun,NOUN,NN,gun.n.01,gun.n.01,violence,weapon.n.01,hyponyms,a weapon that discharges a missile at high velocity (especially from a metal tube or barrel),,['gun'],"Giving birth to whatever it was you mean by the ‘ third thing , ’ using the manly weapon of dialogue , in stead of the old womanly weapon of poison and the bargain - basement gun ."
2743,killed,kill,VERB,VBN,kill.v.01,kill.v.01,violence,kill.v.01,original,"cause to die; put to death, usually intentionally or knowingly",This man killed several people when he tried to rob a bank. The farmer killed a pig for the holidays,['kill'],"But if you people can not forget that which happened 23 years ago , how can you then forget the two million innocent souls of children , women and old men killed by the French in Algeria a few years ago ?"
2745,MUSLIMS,MUSLIMS,PROPN,NNP,muslim.n.01,muslim.n.01,religion,islam.n.01,member_meronyms,a believer in or follower of Islam,,"['Muslim', 'Moslem']","( CASSIUS CLAY ADDRESSES BLACK MUSLIMS , MAY BE MEMBER OE ANTI - WHITE SECT . . . )"
2745,SECT,SECT,PROPN,NNP,sect.n.01,sect.n.01,religion,religion.n.02,hyponyms,a subdivision of a larger religious group,,"['sect', 'religious_sect', 'religious_order']","( CASSIUS CLAY ADDRESSES BLACK MUSLIMS , MAY BE MEMBER OE ANTI - WHITE SECT . . . )"
2746,hatred,hatred,NOUN,NN,hate.n.01,hate.n.01,violence,hate.n.01,original,the emotion of intense dislike; a feeling of dislike so strong that it demands action,,"['hate', 'hatred']","“ It was incredible , Doris , the high pitch of hatred and violence I felt in New York — in America — as soon as I got back from Washington ."
2746,violence,violence,NOUN,NN,violence.n.03,violence.n.03,violence,violence.n.03,original,a turbulent state resulting in injuries and destruction etc.,,['violence'],"“ It was incredible , Doris , the high pitch of hatred and violence I felt in New York — in America — as soon as I got back from Washington ."
2747,whistle,whistle,NOUN,NN,whistle.n.03,whistle.n.03,music,musical_instrument.n.01,hyponyms,a small wind instrument that produces a whistling sound by blowing into it,,['whistle'],"It was if some satanic supersonic whistle were being blown , one of those high - frequency whistles they use to call dogs with , but one so big it was driving people to the point of madness all over the United States ."
2747,whistles,whistle,NOUN,NNS,whistle.n.03,whistle.n.03,music,musical_instrument.n.01,hyponyms,a small wind instrument that produces a whistling sound by blowing into it,,['whistle'],"It was if some satanic supersonic whistle were being blown , one of those high - frequency whistles they use to call dogs with , but one so big it was driving people to the point of madness all over the United States ."
2748,hatred,hatred,NOUN,NN,hate.n.01,hate.n.01,violence,hate.n.01,original,the emotion of intense dislike; a feeling of dislike so strong that it demands action,,"['hate', 'hatred']","The TV stations broadcast two - hour specials about the Freedom March , and hatred against Negroes grew ."
2749,Muslim,Muslim,PROPN,NNP,muslim.n.01,muslim.n.01,religion,islam.n.01,member_meronyms,a believer in or follower of Islam,,"['Muslim', 'Moslem']","I went to a Black Muslim meeting in Harlem to hear Malcolm X speak , and he raved and ranted against white people , and against the Uncle Toms who had let themselves be sucked into participating in the Freedom March ."
2750,Muslim,muslim,ADJ,JJ,muslim.a.01,muslim.a.01,religion,muslim.a.01,original,of or relating to or supporting Islamism,Islamic art,"['Muslim', 'Moslem', 'Islamic']","He urged the crowd to buy Black Muslim bean pies , and warned the black women present that if integration of the races took place , the white women were already mobilized to steal all their black men from them ..."
2753,Kill,kill,VERB,VB,kill.v.01,kill.v.01,violence,kill.v.01,original,"cause to die; put to death, usually intentionally or knowingly",This man killed several people when he tried to rob a bank. The farmer killed a pig for the holidays,['kill'],Kill the cops !
2754,Kill,kill,VERB,VB,kill.v.01,kill.v.01,violence,kill.v.01,original,"cause to die; put to death, usually intentionally or knowingly",This man killed several people when he tried to rob a bank. The farmer killed a pig for the holidays,['kill'],Kill the cops ! ’
2756,church,church,NOUN,NN,church.n.04,church.n.04,religion,church.n.04,original,the body of people who attend or belong to a particular local church,our church is hosting a picnic next week,['church'],"“ Then , on a Sunday afternoon , my sister phoned me from Alabama to tell me that someone had thrown a bomb in a Negro church in Birmingham , killing five young girls who were attending a Sunday school class ..."
2756,killing,kill,VERB,VBG,kill.v.01,kill.v.01,violence,kill.v.01,original,"cause to die; put to death, usually intentionally or knowingly",This man killed several people when he tried to rob a bank. The farmer killed a pig for the holidays,['kill'],"“ Then , on a Sunday afternoon , my sister phoned me from Alabama to tell me that someone had thrown a bomb in a Negro church in Birmingham , killing five young girls who were attending a Sunday school class ..."
2756,attending,attend,VERB,VBG,attend.v.01,attend.v.01,religion,church_service.n.01,in_topic_domains,"be present at (meetings, church services, university), etc.",She attends class regularly. I rarely attend services at my church. did you go to the meeting?,"['attend', 'go_to']","“ Then , on a Sunday afternoon , my sister phoned me from Alabama to tell me that someone had thrown a bomb in a Negro church in Birmingham , killing five young girls who were attending a Sunday school class ..."
2757,violence,violence,NOUN,NN,violence.n.03,violence.n.03,violence,violence.n.03,original,a turbulent state resulting in injuries and destruction etc.,,['violence'],“ And the supersonic dog whistle inciting the nation to violence blew stronger and stronger .
2758,assassinated,assassinate,VERB,VBN,assassinate.v.01,assassinate.v.01,violence,kill.v.01,hyponyms,murder; especially of socially prominent persons,Anwar Sadat was assassinated because many people did not like his peace politics with Israel,['assassinate'],"Two days before President Kennedy was assassinated , I almost got into a fight with a young Irish boy in an Italian bar ."
2769,violence,violence,NOUN,NN,violence.n.01,violence.n.01,violence,violence.n.01,original,an act of aggression (as one against a person who resists),he may accomplish by craft in the long run what he cannot do by force and violence in the short one,"['violence', 'force']",The supersonic dog whistle of violence screamed louder in my ear .
2777,sister,sister,NOUN,NN,sister.n.02,sister.n.02,religion,religion.n.02,in_topic_domains,(Roman Catholic Church) a title given to a nun (and used as a form of address),the Sisters taught her to love God,['Sister'],"“ The Count ’s sister , the nun from the Congo , her name is Maria Novella , came to visit me ."
2784,hating,hate,VERB,VBG,hate.v.01,hate.v.01,violence,hate.v.01,original,dislike intensely; feel antipathy or aversion towards,I hate Mexican food. She detests politicians,"['hate', 'detest']",The Count grew up hating everything that had to do with Africa .
2787,hated,hate,VERB,VBD,hate.v.01,hate.v.01,violence,hate.v.01,original,dislike intensely; feel antipathy or aversion towards,I hate Mexican food. She detests politicians,"['hate', 'detest']",The Count hated his father and he hated Africa .
2787,hated,hate,VERB,VBD,hate.v.01,hate.v.01,violence,hate.v.01,original,dislike intensely; feel antipathy or aversion towards,I hate Mexican food. She detests politicians,"['hate', 'detest']",The Count hated his father and he hated Africa .
2788,sister,sister,NOUN,NN,sister.n.02,sister.n.02,religion,religion.n.02,in_topic_domains,(Roman Catholic Church) a title given to a nun (and used as a form of address),the Sisters taught her to love God,['Sister'],"This made the Count ’s sister feel guilty , so she became a nun and asked to be sent to the Congo ."
2795,cadence,cadence,NOUN,NN,meter.n.03,meter.n.03,music,music.n.01,hyponyms,(prosody) the accent in a metrical foot of verse,,"['meter', 'metre', 'measure', 'beat', 'cadence']","But if I understood her right , in her opinion the new world that is slowly taking shape now , the way society will have to become to survive and not go under , be sucked back down into the mud , will be like Africa and the Africans , will have to be ‘ offbeat , ’ will have to forget the squarish cadence of the steam engine and face the electronic and mathematical , the red and the green realities of the tom - tom bed , the subtle duckings of the Bantu tongue ."
2796,spears,spear,NOUN,NNS,spear.n.01,spear.n.01,violence,weapon.n.01,hyponyms,a long pointed rod used as a tool or weapon,,"['spear', 'lance', 'shaft']","Then she said something in Latin , what she said I do n’t know , I could not understand , but what she said sounded beautiful , and I could tell that Latin , the way she spoke it , was not a square language , many of the sounds and rhythms of what she said to me in Latin were female , while others were line - straight and stood up stiffly like soldiers holding spears ."
2797,sister,sister,NOUN,NN,sister.n.02,sister.n.02,religion,religion.n.02,in_topic_domains,(Roman Catholic Church) a title given to a nun (and used as a form of address),the Sisters taught her to love God,['Sister'],What was it the Count ’s sister said to me in Latin ?
2830,God,God,PROPN,NNP,deity.n.01,deity.n.01,religion,deity.n.01,original,any supernatural being worshipped as controlling some part of the world or some aspect of life or who is the personification of a force,,"['deity', 'divinity', 'god', 'immortal']",‘ God was n’t black ! ’
2833,assassination,assassination,NOUN,NN,assassination.n.02,assassination.n.02,violence,murder.n.01,hyponyms,murder of a public figure by surprise attack,,['assassination'],"In a letter to the Norwegian Nobel Committee , they said Dr. King , who has led American Negroes in their fight for equality since 1955 , ‘ had succeeded in keeping his followers to the principle of nonviolence ... ’ ” ) ( The Commuter : A Day in August , Washington D.C. — If the assassination of President Kennedy was like televised Greek tragedy , then the opening act for me took place that hot August day of the Freedom March in Washington ."
2839,sing,sing,VERB,VBP,sing.v.02,sing.v.02,music,music.n.01,in_topic_domains,produce tones with the voice,She was singing while she was cooking. My brother sings very well,['sing'],Slouching policemen watch us as we sing : “ We shall overcome someday . . . ”
2842,singing,singing,NOUN,NN,singing.n.01,singing.n.01,music,music.n.01,hyponyms,the act of singing vocal music,,"['singing', 'vocalizing']","I become an intellectual again , my critical faculties become alert , and I can no longer join in the holding of hands and the singing ."
2845,song,song,NOUN,NN,song.n.03,song.n.03,music,music.n.01,hyponyms,the act of singing,with a shout and a song they marched up to the gates,"['song', 'strain']","And I can not help but note how every time a group of marchers approaches one of these television cameras the marchers straighten up and assume “ revolutionary ” poses , and boisterously break out into song ."
2857,assassination,assassination,NOUN,NN,assassination.n.02,assassination.n.02,violence,murder.n.01,hyponyms,murder of a public figure by surprise attack,,['assassination'],"Theatrically , historically , the assassination of John Fitzgerald Kennedy was a terrible mistake . . . )"
2858,violence,violence,NOUN,NN,violence.n.03,violence.n.03,violence,violence.n.03,original,a turbulent state resulting in injuries and destruction etc.,,['violence'],"But now , as I sit here in Doris ’ low - ceilinged living room , once the house - steward ’s quarters of this siegeproof prisonlike princely palace in Rome , I keep asking myself just exactly what it is that has made the Doris sitting opposite me , her long lathe - tapered legs in swanlike repose , as outside the narrow lace - curtained window the vesper bells toll and someone nervously guns the motor of a Lambretta , and a dog with a throat ailment barks with unconvincing mournfulness , so different from the Doris who came bouncing with such joyful violence into my studio , seemingly centuries and centuries ago , that reckless day of sunswept astrological beginnings , how many years ago in 196- , when I condescendingly informed her , this Doris maiden of unknown historical roots , that I , the Writer , had decided to ' write a novel about her . . ."
2860,hate,hate,NOUN,NN,hate.n.01,hate.n.01,violence,hate.n.01,original,the emotion of intense dislike; a feeling of dislike so strong that it demands action,,"['hate', 'hatred']","That is , her name is still Doris , and the silken rose - brown involucre containing her flesh and vital organs , the un - embalmable transistorized memory of her cells , is the same ; she is a figment of my imagination , this Doris of mine , no less than are we all the figments of imagination of those who , whether out of love or hate or boredom , in the gloomy waiting rooms of railway or subway stations , or inside that ever - expanding , that ever - clouded fishbowl waiting room of Life , which is our existence now and here on this planet , do take the time to observe us , turn the flashlight of their “ busy ” consciousnesses on us , and , by means of that known - forever - known laser ray of love or simple attention , overcome our chronic doubt , convince us that we too are real and thus reale , Doris is a figment of my imagination — and yet she too , no less than all and everything of us , animate or inanimate , organic or inorganic , pedestrian or shade , no less than all of us , and everything we are , the worlds we inhabit , the worlds that inhabit us , no less than the changeless immutable law itself , Doris too must conform , must submit , to that most sacred of universal laws , that first and only law which forever has taught , shall in all eternity teach , that life is existence and existence is sacred , that now - forgotten sacred law that governs the dance hall and traffic , the tidal flow of rivers and volcanic lakes , the gestation cycle of pregnant squids , the migration of birds , the migration of undesirable peoples ( yellow - brown - black - and - white - all - are - precious - in - his - sight ) , that governs the universe , the Univac , the timing of aging TV comedians ’ electronically - inserted laughs , that solemn rock - bottom law of Transformation ( or plastically , three - dimensionally , Transmutation ) , the ( for we human - brained and human - eyed monsters , the sea - gull scavengers of the crumbs and garbage or potential perception ) embarrassing , the terrifying , the unem - balmable law of changeless change . . ."
2860,dance,dance,NOUN,NN,dance.n.01,dance.n.01,music,dance.n.01,original,an artistic form of nonverbal communication,,['dance'],"That is , her name is still Doris , and the silken rose - brown involucre containing her flesh and vital organs , the un - embalmable transistorized memory of her cells , is the same ; she is a figment of my imagination , this Doris of mine , no less than are we all the figments of imagination of those who , whether out of love or hate or boredom , in the gloomy waiting rooms of railway or subway stations , or inside that ever - expanding , that ever - clouded fishbowl waiting room of Life , which is our existence now and here on this planet , do take the time to observe us , turn the flashlight of their “ busy ” consciousnesses on us , and , by means of that known - forever - known laser ray of love or simple attention , overcome our chronic doubt , convince us that we too are real and thus reale , Doris is a figment of my imagination — and yet she too , no less than all and everything of us , animate or inanimate , organic or inorganic , pedestrian or shade , no less than all of us , and everything we are , the worlds we inhabit , the worlds that inhabit us , no less than the changeless immutable law itself , Doris too must conform , must submit , to that most sacred of universal laws , that first and only law which forever has taught , shall in all eternity teach , that life is existence and existence is sacred , that now - forgotten sacred law that governs the dance hall and traffic , the tidal flow of rivers and volcanic lakes , the gestation cycle of pregnant squids , the migration of birds , the migration of undesirable peoples ( yellow - brown - black - and - white - all - are - precious - in - his - sight ) , that governs the universe , the Univac , the timing of aging TV comedians ’ electronically - inserted laughs , that solemn rock - bottom law of Transformation ( or plastically , three - dimensionally , Transmutation ) , the ( for we human - brained and human - eyed monsters , the sea - gull scavengers of the crumbs and garbage or potential perception ) embarrassing , the terrifying , the unem - balmable law of changeless change . . ."
2862,Cathedral,Cathedral,PROPN,NNP,cathedral.n.01,cathedral.n.01,religion,church.n.02,hyponyms,any large and important church,,['cathedral'],"Doris , the Doris wearing a striped prisoner ’s tunic , this chain - gang Doris , is not bursting , exploding with exuberance and joy , she has become a princess from the Orient , cool and elusive , light of weight , the sunset rays suddenly now have turned her flesh a cosmetically winter - garden shade of the nightshade flower , this rose color I saw with my own eyes on the foot - worn floor of the Cathedral of Siena ."
2865,exaggeration,exaggeration,NOUN,NN,hyperbole.n.01,hyperbole.n.01,music,music.n.01,hyponyms,extravagant exaggeration,,"['hyperbole', 'exaggeration']","( My wife , Ta - tina , says that this is an “ exaggeration . ” )"
2867,church,church,NOUN,NN,church.n.02,church.n.02,religion,church.n.02,original,a place for public (especially Christian) worship,the church was empty,"['church', 'church_building']",I have been to that church on the Adriatic coast .
2870,church,church,NOUN,NN,church.n.02,church.n.02,religion,church.n.02,original,a place for public (especially Christian) worship,the church was empty,"['church', 'church_building']","I remember the warmth of that church , situated on a tiny hill ."
2879,Lord,Lord,PROPN,NNP,godhead.n.01,godhead.n.01,religion,godhead.n.01,original,terms referring to the Judeo-Christian God,,"['Godhead', 'Lord', 'Creator', 'Maker', 'Divine', 'God_Almighty', 'Almighty', 'Jehovah']",In America we pray to the Lord .
2905,Catholic,Catholic,PROPN,NNP,catholic.n.01,catholic.n.01,religion,religion.n.02,member_meronyms,a member of a Catholic church,,['Catholic'],Kennedy was a Catholic .
2906,killed,kill,VERB,VBD,kill.v.01,kill.v.01,violence,kill.v.01,original,"cause to die; put to death, usually intentionally or knowingly",This man killed several people when he tried to rob a bank. The farmer killed a pig for the holidays,['kill'],Do you think that is why they killed him ? ”
2909,assassinated,assassinate,VERB,VBN,assassinate.v.01,assassinate.v.01,violence,kill.v.01,hyponyms,murder; especially of socially prominent persons,Anwar Sadat was assassinated because many people did not like his peace politics with Israel,['assassinate'],"The week he was assassinated , an anonymous gunman in New York shot a girl who was getting ready to go to bed ."
2910,shot,shoot,VERB,VBD,shoot.v.02,shoot.v.02,violence,kill.v.01,hyponyms,kill by firing a missile,,"['shoot', 'pip']","He shot her with a high - powered rifle , in the darkness , he stood on railway tracks and shot her in the back . ."
2910,rifle,rifle,NOUN,NN,rifle.n.01,rifle.n.01,violence,weapon.n.01,hyponyms,a shoulder firearm with a long barrel and a rifled bore,he lifted the rifle to his shoulder and fired,['rifle'],"He shot her with a high - powered rifle , in the darkness , he stood on railway tracks and shot her in the back . ."
2910,shot,shoot,VERB,VBD,shoot.v.02,shoot.v.02,violence,kill.v.01,hyponyms,kill by firing a missile,,"['shoot', 'pip']","He shot her with a high - powered rifle , in the darkness , he stood on railway tracks and shot her in the back . ."
2919,Mozart,Mozart,PROPN,NNP,mozart.n.02,mozart.n.02,music,music.n.01,hyponyms,the music of Mozart,the concert was mostly Mozart,['Mozart'],"Into our tiny urban renewal apartment , with B.K. and my sister , both admiring the efficiency of it all , what great administrators are we ladies and girls , came the sound waves ciphered in homely similar homes by Mozart and Beethoven , music came and wrapped itself around our big city perversity , our big city cult of aloneness , music brought another kind of warmth to still the rising temperature of criminal delight , the bang - bang - you’re - dead of criminal child - play journalism on film ..."
2919,Beethoven,Beethoven,PROPN,NNP,beethoven.n.02,beethoven.n.02,music,music.n.01,hyponyms,the music of Beethoven,he enjoyed Beethoven most of all,['Beethoven'],"Into our tiny urban renewal apartment , with B.K. and my sister , both admiring the efficiency of it all , what great administrators are we ladies and girls , came the sound waves ciphered in homely similar homes by Mozart and Beethoven , music came and wrapped itself around our big city perversity , our big city cult of aloneness , music brought another kind of warmth to still the rising temperature of criminal delight , the bang - bang - you’re - dead of criminal child - play journalism on film ..."
2919,music,music,NOUN,NN,music.n.02,music.n.02,music,music.n.02,original,any agreeable (pleasing and harmonious) sounds,he fell asleep to the music of the wind chimes,"['music', 'euphony']","Into our tiny urban renewal apartment , with B.K. and my sister , both admiring the efficiency of it all , what great administrators are we ladies and girls , came the sound waves ciphered in homely similar homes by Mozart and Beethoven , music came and wrapped itself around our big city perversity , our big city cult of aloneness , music brought another kind of warmth to still the rising temperature of criminal delight , the bang - bang - you’re - dead of criminal child - play journalism on film ..."
2919,music,music,NOUN,NN,music.n.02,music.n.02,music,music.n.02,original,any agreeable (pleasing and harmonious) sounds,he fell asleep to the music of the wind chimes,"['music', 'euphony']","Into our tiny urban renewal apartment , with B.K. and my sister , both admiring the efficiency of it all , what great administrators are we ladies and girls , came the sound waves ciphered in homely similar homes by Mozart and Beethoven , music came and wrapped itself around our big city perversity , our big city cult of aloneness , music brought another kind of warmth to still the rising temperature of criminal delight , the bang - bang - you’re - dead of criminal child - play journalism on film ..."
2920,music,music,NOUN,NN,music.n.01,music.n.01,music,music.n.01,original,an artistic form of auditory communication incorporating instrumental or vocal tones in a structured and continuous manner,,['music'],"I was so grateful for the music of Mozart and Beethoven , I do not like the mirror - reflected images of urban civilization on the miserable two - by - four TV screen ."
2920,Mozart,Mozart,PROPN,NNP,mozart.n.02,mozart.n.02,music,music.n.01,hyponyms,the music of Mozart,the concert was mostly Mozart,['Mozart'],"I was so grateful for the music of Mozart and Beethoven , I do not like the mirror - reflected images of urban civilization on the miserable two - by - four TV screen ."
2920,Beethoven,Beethoven,PROPN,NNP,beethoven.n.02,beethoven.n.02,music,music.n.01,hyponyms,the music of Beethoven,he enjoyed Beethoven most of all,['Beethoven'],"I was so grateful for the music of Mozart and Beethoven , I do not like the mirror - reflected images of urban civilization on the miserable two - by - four TV screen ."
2924,assassinate,assassinate,VERB,VB,assassinate.v.01,assassinate.v.01,violence,kill.v.01,hyponyms,murder; especially of socially prominent persons,Anwar Sadat was assassinated because many people did not like his peace politics with Israel,['assassinate'],"Why did they assassinate you , Mr. Kennedy , my Lord ?"
2925,assassinated,assassinate,VERB,VBD,assassinate.v.01,assassinate.v.01,violence,kill.v.01,hyponyms,murder; especially of socially prominent persons,Anwar Sadat was assassinated because many people did not like his peace politics with Israel,['assassinate'],Some say they assassinated you because you did not wear a hat .
2930,assassinated,assassinate,VERB,VBN,assassinate.v.01,assassinate.v.01,violence,kill.v.01,hyponyms,murder; especially of socially prominent persons,Anwar Sadat was assassinated because many people did not like his peace politics with Israel,['assassinate'],‘ President Kennedy has been assassinated . ’
2931,Jewish,jewish,ADJ,JJ,jewish.a.01,jewish.a.01,religion,jewish.a.01,original,of or relating to Jews or their culture or religion,He is Jewish. a Jewish wedding,"['Jewish', 'Judaic']","An elegant Jewish youth looked at me , observed my reaction ."
2935,Saint,Saint,PROPN,NNP,saint.n.01,saint.n.01,religion,deity.n.01,hyponyms,a person who has died and has been declared a saint by canonization,,['saint'],Girls were streaming into Saint Patrick ’s .
2945,figure,figure,NOUN,NN,trope.n.01,trope.n.01,music,music.n.01,hyponyms,language used in a figurative or nonliteral sense,,"['trope', 'figure_of_speech', 'figure', 'image']","Dallas , Feb. 16 , 1964 ( API)—When Jack Ruby steps into Court tomorrow he will be the principal figure in a murder case promising to become an American classic ."
2945,murder,murder,NOUN,NN,murder.n.01,murder.n.01,violence,murder.n.01,original,unlawful premeditated killing of a human being by a human being,,"['murder', 'slaying', 'execution']","Dallas , Feb. 16 , 1964 ( API)—When Jack Ruby steps into Court tomorrow he will be the principal figure in a murder case promising to become an American classic ."
2946,assassination,assassination,NOUN,NN,assassination.n.02,assassination.n.02,violence,murder.n.01,hyponyms,murder of a public figure by surprise attack,,['assassination'],"Ruby ’s chief counsel , Melvin Belli of San Francisco , has indicated he may try to go fully into all the evidence surrounding President John F. Kennedy ’s assassination as a necessary part of Ruby ’s defense ."
2947,killed,kill,VERB,VBD,kill.v.01,kill.v.01,violence,kill.v.01,original,"cause to die; put to death, usually intentionally or knowingly",This man killed several people when he tried to rob a bank. The farmer killed a pig for the holidays,['kill'],"Ruby killed Lee Harvey Oswald , Mr. Kennedy ’s accused assassin , with a snub - nosed .38 - caliber pistol in the basement of Dallas ’"
2947,pistol,pistol,NOUN,NN,pistol.n.01,pistol.n.01,violence,weapon.n.01,hyponyms,a firearm that is held and fired with one hand,,"['pistol', 'handgun', 'side_arm', 'shooting_iron']","Ruby killed Lee Harvey Oswald , Mr. Kennedy ’s accused assassin , with a snub - nosed .38 - caliber pistol in the basement of Dallas ’"
2965,tormented,torment,VERB,VBN,torment.v.01,torment.v.01,violence,pain.v.02,hyponyms,torment emotionally or mentally,,"['torment', 'torture', 'excruciate', 'rack']","Because everything and everybody , real or invented , characters in books , even the books themselves , even the book jacket and the colored ink on the cover design , is composed of matter and for this reason matters , must therefore breathe in harmony with a single governing law , respond according to its aliveness , its alertness , to the degree that it is awake or awakened , to the shifting humors of the wind - tormented involucre of our physical environment , which through Penelope ’s law of tapestry , Penelope ’s law of changeless change , can , as so often it does , become transmuted into climate and weather , weather peaceful or calm , these wild pregnant storm signals that flash ignored through our minds . . . ”"
2968,chants,chant,NOUN,NNS,chant.n.01,chant.n.01,music,music.n.01,hyponyms,a repetitive song in which as many syllables as necessary are assigned to a single tone,,['chant'],"We are today in Lent , the city is tense , its marble fingers are clenched , the sky is low and heavy on the brow of the Seven Hills , the seasonal Mystery Play has begun , the inaudible chants , the distant blowing of ram’s - hom trumpets has frightened the dogs , two this morning , I saw them with my own eyes , roamed the streets without master or pastor , some vandal has drawn with a red pencil a phallic prick and balls over the doorbell of our apartment , I am glad , thankful , though secretly alarmed , that the phallic prick and balls is not a Star of David nor a swastika symbol of Persian sun , I am thankful for many things , today in Rome , this gray ashen day of Lent , thankful for the mood of mystery , of austerity , of Lent , thankful that the city breathes and sobs , childishly fights back the tears of grief and bellringing joy ."
2968,trumpets,trumpet,NOUN,NNS,cornet.n.01,cornet.n.01,music,musical_instrument.n.01,hyponyms,a brass musical instrument with a brilliant tone; has a narrow tube and a flared bell and is played by means of valves,,"['cornet', 'horn', 'trumpet', 'trump']","We are today in Lent , the city is tense , its marble fingers are clenched , the sky is low and heavy on the brow of the Seven Hills , the seasonal Mystery Play has begun , the inaudible chants , the distant blowing of ram’s - hom trumpets has frightened the dogs , two this morning , I saw them with my own eyes , roamed the streets without master or pastor , some vandal has drawn with a red pencil a phallic prick and balls over the doorbell of our apartment , I am glad , thankful , though secretly alarmed , that the phallic prick and balls is not a Star of David nor a swastika symbol of Persian sun , I am thankful for many things , today in Rome , this gray ashen day of Lent , thankful for the mood of mystery , of austerity , of Lent , thankful that the city breathes and sobs , childishly fights back the tears of grief and bellringing joy ."
2970,poetry,poetry,NOUN,NN,poetry.n.02,poetry.n.02,music,music.n.01,hyponyms,any communication resembling poetry in beauty or the evocation of feeling,,['poetry'],"I hope that Rotella in Queen of Heaven jail is having a good Sunday meal , I hope the meal consists of spaghetti and roast chicken , I sincerely hope this Calabrian artist friend of mine , who came to our carnival children ’s party last year and recited his “ epistaltica ” poetry and recorded on his tape recorder the Applause Contest , in which I told the costumed children that we adults , especially those who work in the field of Art , are hungry , are starved for applause , and that I would give a first , second and third prize to those children present at the party who would praise and applaud me the loudest , oh , how intoxicating was that praise and that applause , sufficient it was for a lifetime , so sincerely I hope that Rotella , this Calabrian artist friend of mine , soon is freed , “ La Tessera della Poverta ” is the quadro I shall meditate on , this ashen gray Sunday of Lent .. • )"
2973,suicide,suicide,NOUN,NN,suicide.n.01,suicide.n.01,violence,killing.n.02,hyponyms,the act of killing yourself,it is a crime to commit suicide,"['suicide', 'self-destruction', 'self-annihilation']","I remember , Doris , the day , perhaps in 1961 or 1962 , it does n’t matter , I rose very early in the morning , with my wife , to go with J.P. and Laura , you remember Laura , who committed suicide , and Mangione and Mangione ’s daughter , who looks like Stefania Sandrelli in Seduced and Abandoned , to see the eclipse ; as dawn radiated a cold pink sadness over the Via Cassia landscape going north from Rome , a desolate bitter landscape scarred by wave after wave of invasions from the north , in two automobiles , Laura ’s Citroen and Mario ’s coffin - white Fiat roadster - speedster , we went to a certain place , a little more than an hour ’s drive from Rome , to witness a terrifying event , to witness that which only strong spirits should dare to witness ."
2974,underworld,underworld,NOUN,NN,hell.n.04,hell.n.04,religion,religion.n.01,in_topic_domains,(religion) the world of the dead;  - Theognis,No one goes to Hades with all his immense wealth,"['Hell', 'Hades', 'infernal_region', 'netherworld', 'Scheol', 'underworld']","Never never never shall I forget that terrifying moment when the sun was no more , when an underworld sea - bottom glow rippled across the field , and I felt cold and cold - blooded , a creature of the sea , an exile from sacred evolution , there were colors to that rippling glow but colors that had no names in the vocabulary or literature of advertising , it was cold , it was evil , Someone , something else , reigned in that eternal moment of the unholy spectacle of the moon overshadowing the blazing glory of the sun , the Son , there was a busload of girl students come to witness this advent of He who reigns beneath and within , they turned their faces , hid their faces in their hands and made strange sounds , they tried to look away , this , I guess , was the mystical moment of Elevation , the elevation of that which is not , the anti - of - the - antis , the astronomical justification of the Anti - Christ . . ."
2974,advent,advent,NOUN,NN,second_coming.n.01,second_coming.n.01,religion,theology.n.01,in_topic_domains,(Christian theology) the reappearance of Jesus as judge for the Last Judgment,,"['Second_Coming', 'Second_Coming_of_Christ', 'Second_Advent', 'Advent', 'Parousia']","Never never never shall I forget that terrifying moment when the sun was no more , when an underworld sea - bottom glow rippled across the field , and I felt cold and cold - blooded , a creature of the sea , an exile from sacred evolution , there were colors to that rippling glow but colors that had no names in the vocabulary or literature of advertising , it was cold , it was evil , Someone , something else , reigned in that eternal moment of the unholy spectacle of the moon overshadowing the blazing glory of the sun , the Son , there was a busload of girl students come to witness this advent of He who reigns beneath and within , they turned their faces , hid their faces in their hands and made strange sounds , they tried to look away , this , I guess , was the mystical moment of Elevation , the elevation of that which is not , the anti - of - the - antis , the astronomical justification of the Anti - Christ . . ."
2977,God,God,PROPN,NNP,deity.n.01,deity.n.01,religion,deity.n.01,original,any supernatural being worshipped as controlling some part of the world or some aspect of life or who is the personification of a force,,"['deity', 'divinity', 'god', 'immortal']",“ Americans often say : ‘ This is God ’s Country ’ ? ”
2979,God,God,PROPN,NNP,god.n.01,god.n.01,religion,god.n.01,original,the supernatural being conceived as the perfect and omnipotent and omniscient originator and ruler of the universe; the object of worship in monotheistic religions,,"['God', 'Supreme_Being']",Do they mean that God carries an American passport ?
2980,music,music,NOUN,NN,music.n.01,music.n.01,music,music.n.01,original,an artistic form of auditory communication incorporating instrumental or vocal tones in a structured and continuous manner,,['music'],"Yesterday , Sunday , I went to visit Alex , I returned to him a Philips radio we bought together in our bohemian days some fourteen years ago in an appliance store near Piazza di Venezia , the radio ’s brown plastic box has been shattered and clumsily pieced back together , the light of its dial still glows with a yellow - green brightness like a lightning bug in the purple garden of a moonlit summer night , but the tubes — how much has happened in fourteen years , chain reaction of technical progress , tubes are no longer tubes but the transistorized scratching of a labyrinth of memory upon a plastic plaque ; I remember searching for sound and speeches and music from what was then called the ether by scratching a crystal nugget with the whisker of a cat — no longer work , Alex again declared himself an atheist , said that I was incurably sentimental to believe in God and religion , to pray to madonnas ; said I : What difference does it make if one is a believer or an atheist , if God exists or does not exist ?"
2980,atheist,atheist,NOUN,NN,atheist.n.01,atheist.n.01,religion,atheist.n.01,original,someone who does not believe in the existence of a god,,['atheist'],"Yesterday , Sunday , I went to visit Alex , I returned to him a Philips radio we bought together in our bohemian days some fourteen years ago in an appliance store near Piazza di Venezia , the radio ’s brown plastic box has been shattered and clumsily pieced back together , the light of its dial still glows with a yellow - green brightness like a lightning bug in the purple garden of a moonlit summer night , but the tubes — how much has happened in fourteen years , chain reaction of technical progress , tubes are no longer tubes but the transistorized scratching of a labyrinth of memory upon a plastic plaque ; I remember searching for sound and speeches and music from what was then called the ether by scratching a crystal nugget with the whisker of a cat — no longer work , Alex again declared himself an atheist , said that I was incurably sentimental to believe in God and religion , to pray to madonnas ; said I : What difference does it make if one is a believer or an atheist , if God exists or does not exist ?"
2980,believe,believe,VERB,VB,believe.v.04,believe.v.04,religion,religion.n.01,in_topic_domains,follow a credo; have a faith; be a believer,"When you hear his sermons, you will be able to believe, too",['believe'],"Yesterday , Sunday , I went to visit Alex , I returned to him a Philips radio we bought together in our bohemian days some fourteen years ago in an appliance store near Piazza di Venezia , the radio ’s brown plastic box has been shattered and clumsily pieced back together , the light of its dial still glows with a yellow - green brightness like a lightning bug in the purple garden of a moonlit summer night , but the tubes — how much has happened in fourteen years , chain reaction of technical progress , tubes are no longer tubes but the transistorized scratching of a labyrinth of memory upon a plastic plaque ; I remember searching for sound and speeches and music from what was then called the ether by scratching a crystal nugget with the whisker of a cat — no longer work , Alex again declared himself an atheist , said that I was incurably sentimental to believe in God and religion , to pray to madonnas ; said I : What difference does it make if one is a believer or an atheist , if God exists or does not exist ?"
2980,God,God,PROPN,NNP,god.n.01,god.n.01,religion,god.n.01,original,the supernatural being conceived as the perfect and omnipotent and omniscient originator and ruler of the universe; the object of worship in monotheistic religions,,"['God', 'Supreme_Being']","Yesterday , Sunday , I went to visit Alex , I returned to him a Philips radio we bought together in our bohemian days some fourteen years ago in an appliance store near Piazza di Venezia , the radio ’s brown plastic box has been shattered and clumsily pieced back together , the light of its dial still glows with a yellow - green brightness like a lightning bug in the purple garden of a moonlit summer night , but the tubes — how much has happened in fourteen years , chain reaction of technical progress , tubes are no longer tubes but the transistorized scratching of a labyrinth of memory upon a plastic plaque ; I remember searching for sound and speeches and music from what was then called the ether by scratching a crystal nugget with the whisker of a cat — no longer work , Alex again declared himself an atheist , said that I was incurably sentimental to believe in God and religion , to pray to madonnas ; said I : What difference does it make if one is a believer or an atheist , if God exists or does not exist ?"
2980,religion,religion,NOUN,NN,religion.n.01,religion.n.01,religion,religion.n.01,original,a strong belief in a supernatural power or powers that control human destiny,he lost his faith but not his morality,"['religion', 'faith', 'religious_belief']","Yesterday , Sunday , I went to visit Alex , I returned to him a Philips radio we bought together in our bohemian days some fourteen years ago in an appliance store near Piazza di Venezia , the radio ’s brown plastic box has been shattered and clumsily pieced back together , the light of its dial still glows with a yellow - green brightness like a lightning bug in the purple garden of a moonlit summer night , but the tubes — how much has happened in fourteen years , chain reaction of technical progress , tubes are no longer tubes but the transistorized scratching of a labyrinth of memory upon a plastic plaque ; I remember searching for sound and speeches and music from what was then called the ether by scratching a crystal nugget with the whisker of a cat — no longer work , Alex again declared himself an atheist , said that I was incurably sentimental to believe in God and religion , to pray to madonnas ; said I : What difference does it make if one is a believer or an atheist , if God exists or does not exist ?"
2980,atheist,atheist,NOUN,NN,atheist.n.01,atheist.n.01,religion,atheist.n.01,original,someone who does not believe in the existence of a god,,['atheist'],"Yesterday , Sunday , I went to visit Alex , I returned to him a Philips radio we bought together in our bohemian days some fourteen years ago in an appliance store near Piazza di Venezia , the radio ’s brown plastic box has been shattered and clumsily pieced back together , the light of its dial still glows with a yellow - green brightness like a lightning bug in the purple garden of a moonlit summer night , but the tubes — how much has happened in fourteen years , chain reaction of technical progress , tubes are no longer tubes but the transistorized scratching of a labyrinth of memory upon a plastic plaque ; I remember searching for sound and speeches and music from what was then called the ether by scratching a crystal nugget with the whisker of a cat — no longer work , Alex again declared himself an atheist , said that I was incurably sentimental to believe in God and religion , to pray to madonnas ; said I : What difference does it make if one is a believer or an atheist , if God exists or does not exist ?"
2980,God,God,PROPN,NNP,god.n.01,god.n.01,religion,god.n.01,original,the supernatural being conceived as the perfect and omnipotent and omniscient originator and ruler of the universe; the object of worship in monotheistic religions,,"['God', 'Supreme_Being']","Yesterday , Sunday , I went to visit Alex , I returned to him a Philips radio we bought together in our bohemian days some fourteen years ago in an appliance store near Piazza di Venezia , the radio ’s brown plastic box has been shattered and clumsily pieced back together , the light of its dial still glows with a yellow - green brightness like a lightning bug in the purple garden of a moonlit summer night , but the tubes — how much has happened in fourteen years , chain reaction of technical progress , tubes are no longer tubes but the transistorized scratching of a labyrinth of memory upon a plastic plaque ; I remember searching for sound and speeches and music from what was then called the ether by scratching a crystal nugget with the whisker of a cat — no longer work , Alex again declared himself an atheist , said that I was incurably sentimental to believe in God and religion , to pray to madonnas ; said I : What difference does it make if one is a believer or an atheist , if God exists or does not exist ?"
2988,placed,place,VERB,VBD,place.v.16,place.v.16,music,music.n.01,hyponyms,sing a note with the correct pitch,,['place'],"That day toward the end of the war when he appeared in the entrance of my tent , I was near Grosseto , in Etruscan country , he took me to his camp , Torre del Lago , where Puccini lived and composed , onyx - black was the still volcanic lake when my brother Frank placed a machine gun in my hand and told me to shoot , mitragliatrice , I was ashamed of the intoxicating joy of firing , lacerating the stillness and quiet of that Tuscan night , rat - a - ta - ta - ta - ta - ta - ta , two years later , a student at Fisk University , I bought an album of Puccini ’s La Boheme , and would turn the phonograph thunderously loud , ‘ Che gelida manina , ’ today in 1964 my brother Frank is a staff physician at a state mental hospital in San Francisco , first he was a pharmacologist , then he became a specialist in internal medicine , now his specialization is geriatrics !"
2988,gun,gun,NOUN,NN,gun.n.01,gun.n.01,violence,weapon.n.01,hyponyms,a weapon that discharges a missile at high velocity (especially from a metal tube or barrel),,['gun'],"That day toward the end of the war when he appeared in the entrance of my tent , I was near Grosseto , in Etruscan country , he took me to his camp , Torre del Lago , where Puccini lived and composed , onyx - black was the still volcanic lake when my brother Frank placed a machine gun in my hand and told me to shoot , mitragliatrice , I was ashamed of the intoxicating joy of firing , lacerating the stillness and quiet of that Tuscan night , rat - a - ta - ta - ta - ta - ta - ta , two years later , a student at Fisk University , I bought an album of Puccini ’s La Boheme , and would turn the phonograph thunderously loud , ‘ Che gelida manina , ’ today in 1964 my brother Frank is a staff physician at a state mental hospital in San Francisco , first he was a pharmacologist , then he became a specialist in internal medicine , now his specialization is geriatrics !"
2988,stillness,stillness,NOUN,NN,hush.n.01,hush.n.01,music,music.n.01,in_topic_domains,(poetic) tranquil silence,the still of the night,"['hush', 'stillness', 'still']","That day toward the end of the war when he appeared in the entrance of my tent , I was near Grosseto , in Etruscan country , he took me to his camp , Torre del Lago , where Puccini lived and composed , onyx - black was the still volcanic lake when my brother Frank placed a machine gun in my hand and told me to shoot , mitragliatrice , I was ashamed of the intoxicating joy of firing , lacerating the stillness and quiet of that Tuscan night , rat - a - ta - ta - ta - ta - ta - ta , two years later , a student at Fisk University , I bought an album of Puccini ’s La Boheme , and would turn the phonograph thunderously loud , ‘ Che gelida manina , ’ today in 1964 my brother Frank is a staff physician at a state mental hospital in San Francisco , first he was a pharmacologist , then he became a specialist in internal medicine , now his specialization is geriatrics !"
2988,staff,staff,NOUN,NN,staff.n.06,staff.n.06,music,music.n.01,in_topic_domains,(music) the system of five horizontal lines on which the musical notes are written,,"['staff', 'stave']","That day toward the end of the war when he appeared in the entrance of my tent , I was near Grosseto , in Etruscan country , he took me to his camp , Torre del Lago , where Puccini lived and composed , onyx - black was the still volcanic lake when my brother Frank placed a machine gun in my hand and told me to shoot , mitragliatrice , I was ashamed of the intoxicating joy of firing , lacerating the stillness and quiet of that Tuscan night , rat - a - ta - ta - ta - ta - ta - ta , two years later , a student at Fisk University , I bought an album of Puccini ’s La Boheme , and would turn the phonograph thunderously loud , ‘ Che gelida manina , ’ today in 1964 my brother Frank is a staff physician at a state mental hospital in San Francisco , first he was a pharmacologist , then he became a specialist in internal medicine , now his specialization is geriatrics !"
2993,assassinated,assassinate,VERB,VBN,assassinate.v.01,assassinate.v.01,violence,kill.v.01,hyponyms,murder; especially of socially prominent persons,Anwar Sadat was assassinated because many people did not like his peace politics with Israel,['assassinate'],"And the TV cameras whirred , recording this strangely urgent marathon of mind over intestine and kidney , I must smile and be nonchalant , I must hold it in , the impartial objective electronic eye put it all down on sensitivized tape , we watched , munching cheese and crackers and drinking imported Norwegian beer , my sister Dorothy and B.K. , in that tiny flat off Ninety - sixth Street , we watched the events of history move with shadowy logic across the tiny TV screen , while the riderless horse , the frisky colt from Pakistan , was eating its oats , and the young President was dead and buried , assassinated before having had the time even to grow an Abraham Lincoln beard .."
2994,hurts,hurt,VERB,VBZ,hurt.v.04,hurt.v.04,violence,hurt.v.04,original,cause damage or affect negatively,Our business was hurt by the new competition,"['hurt', 'injure']",“ clay wins in 7 as liston hurts shoulder .
3003,god,god,PROPN,NNP,god.n.01,god.n.01,religion,god.n.01,original,the supernatural being conceived as the perfect and omnipotent and omniscient originator and ruler of the universe; the object of worship in monotheistic religions,,"['God', 'Supreme_Being']","( “ ‘ god HELPED ME BEAT LISTON , ’ CLAY SAYS HE HAS ADOPTED ISLAM , ‘ a WAY OF LIFE THAT WILL SAVE THE world . ’"
3003,ISLAM,ISLAM,PROPN,NNP,islam.n.01,islam.n.01,religion,islam.n.01,original,the civilization of Muslims collectively which is governed by the Muslim religion,"Islam is predominant in northern Africa, the Middle East, Pakistan, and Indonesia","['Islam', 'Muslimism']","( “ ‘ god HELPED ME BEAT LISTON , ’ CLAY SAYS HE HAS ADOPTED ISLAM , ‘ a WAY OF LIFE THAT WILL SAVE THE world . ’"
3004,Islam,Islam,PROPN,NNP,islam.n.01,islam.n.01,religion,islam.n.01,original,the civilization of Muslims collectively which is governed by the Muslim religion,"Islam is predominant in northern Africa, the Middle East, Pakistan, and Indonesia","['Islam', 'Muslimism']","Miami Beach , Feb. 27 , 1964 — The new heavyweight boxing champion of the world , Cassius Clay , said today he had adopted the Islam religion and regarded it as the best way to bring about lasting peace among the peoples of the world . .."
3004,religion,religion,NOUN,NN,religion.n.01,religion.n.01,religion,religion.n.01,original,a strong belief in a supernatural power or powers that control human destiny,he lost his faith but not his morality,"['religion', 'faith', 'religious_belief']","Miami Beach , Feb. 27 , 1964 — The new heavyweight boxing champion of the world , Cassius Clay , said today he had adopted the Islam religion and regarded it as the best way to bring about lasting peace among the peoples of the world . .."
3005,Muslims,Muslims,PROPN,NNPS,muslim.n.01,muslim.n.01,religion,islam.n.01,member_meronyms,a believer in or follower of Islam,,"['Muslim', 'Moslem']","‘ They call it the Black Muslims , ’ the 22 - year - old fighter said ."
3008,Islam,Islam,PROPN,NNP,islam.n.02,islam.n.02,religion,religion.n.01,hyponyms,the monotheistic religious system of Muslims founded in Arabia in the 7th century and based on the teachings of Muhammad as laid down in the Koran,"Islam is a complete way of life, not a Sunday religion. the term Muhammadanism is offensive to Muslims who believe that Allah, not Muhammad, founded their religion","['Islam', 'Islamism', 'Mohammedanism', 'Muhammadanism', 'Muslimism']","But Islam is a religion and there are 750 million people all over the world who believe in it , and I am one of them . . . ’"
3008,religion,religion,NOUN,NN,religion.n.01,religion.n.01,religion,religion.n.01,original,a strong belief in a supernatural power or powers that control human destiny,he lost his faith but not his morality,"['religion', 'faith', 'religious_belief']","But Islam is a religion and there are 750 million people all over the world who believe in it , and I am one of them . . . ’"
3008,believe,believe,VERB,VBP,believe.v.04,believe.v.04,religion,religion.n.01,in_topic_domains,follow a credo; have a faith; be a believer,"When you hear his sermons, you will be able to believe, too",['believe'],"But Islam is a religion and there are 750 million people all over the world who believe in it , and I am one of them . . . ’"
3009,believed,believe,VERB,VBD,believe.v.04,believe.v.04,religion,religion.n.01,in_topic_domains,follow a credo; have a faith; be a believer,"When you hear his sermons, you will be able to believe, too",['believe'],"The new champion said he believed that his new - found religion , ‘ which has brought me a great inner peace , ’ was largely responsible for his victory over Sonny Liston . .."
3009,religion,religion,NOUN,NN,religion.n.01,religion.n.01,religion,religion.n.01,original,a strong belief in a supernatural power or powers that control human destiny,he lost his faith but not his morality,"['religion', 'faith', 'religious_belief']","The new champion said he believed that his new - found religion , ‘ which has brought me a great inner peace , ’ was largely responsible for his victory over Sonny Liston . .."
3010,God,God,PROPN,NNP,god.n.01,god.n.01,religion,god.n.01,original,the supernatural being conceived as the perfect and omnipotent and omniscient originator and ruler of the universe; the object of worship in monotheistic religions,,"['God', 'Supreme_Being']",‘ God was with me .
3013,Islam,Islam,PROPN,NNP,islam.n.01,islam.n.01,religion,islam.n.01,original,the civilization of Muslims collectively which is governed by the Muslim religion,"Islam is predominant in northern Africa, the Middle East, Pakistan, and Indonesia","['Islam', 'Muslimism']",Qay said that he was disturbed that the Islam religion had been referred to as a Communist and hate group ...
3013,religion,religion,NOUN,NN,religion.n.01,religion.n.01,religion,religion.n.01,original,a strong belief in a supernatural power or powers that control human destiny,he lost his faith but not his morality,"['religion', 'faith', 'religious_belief']",Qay said that he was disturbed that the Islam religion had been referred to as a Communist and hate group ...
3013,hate,hate,NOUN,NN,hate.n.01,hate.n.01,violence,hate.n.01,original,the emotion of intense dislike; a feeling of dislike so strong that it demands action,,"['hate', 'hatred']",Qay said that he was disturbed that the Islam religion had been referred to as a Communist and hate group ...
3014,hate,hate,VERB,VB,hate.v.01,hate.v.01,violence,hate.v.01,original,dislike intensely; feel antipathy or aversion towards,I hate Mexican food. She detests politicians,"['hate', 'detest']",‘ We do n’t hate anyone .
3031,counterpoint,counterpoint,NOUN,NN,counterpoint.n.01,counterpoint.n.01,music,music.n.01,hyponyms,a musical form involving the simultaneous sound of two or more melodies,,['counterpoint'],"But there is also , like the counterpoint of a fugue , the trilling upper - register scent of expensive perfume ."
3031,fugue,fugue,NOUN,NN,fugue.n.03,fugue.n.03,music,music.n.01,hyponyms,a musical form consisting of a theme repeated a fifth above or a fourth below its first statement,,['fugue'],"But there is also , like the counterpoint of a fugue , the trilling upper - register scent of expensive perfume ."
3031,trilling,trill,VERB,VBG,warble.v.01,warble.v.01,music,music.n.01,hyponyms,"sing or play with trills, alternating with the half note above or below",,"['warble', 'trill', 'quaver']","But there is also , like the counterpoint of a fugue , the trilling upper - register scent of expensive perfume ."
3031,register,register,NOUN,NN,register.n.02,register.n.02,music,music.n.01,hyponyms,(music) the timbre that is characteristic of a certain range and manner of production of the human voice or of different pipe organ stops or of different musical instruments,,['register'],"But there is also , like the counterpoint of a fugue , the trilling upper - register scent of expensive perfume ."
3057,assassination,assassination,NOUN,NN,assassination.n.02,assassination.n.02,violence,murder.n.01,hyponyms,murder of a public figure by surprise attack,,['assassination'],"I met Francine Virduzzo who told me that the new issue of New Morality is out , that this issue , with my article about the Freedom March and the assassination of Kennedy , is a “ cannonata ” I met Vespignani who did not recognize me at first and then I realized that his jaw was swollen with a terrible toothache ."
3068,Church,Church,PROPN,NNP,church.n.02,church.n.02,religion,church.n.02,original,a place for public (especially Christian) worship,the church was empty,"['church', 'church_building']","It will be April in New York , flowers will bloom like tiny girl college students in the forgotten cemeteries of Trinity Church and the Church of the Intercession ."
3068,Church,Church,PROPN,NNP,church.n.02,church.n.02,religion,church.n.02,original,a place for public (especially Christian) worship,the church was empty,"['church', 'church_building']","It will be April in New York , flowers will bloom like tiny girl college students in the forgotten cemeteries of Trinity Church and the Church of the Intercession ."
3068,Intercession,Intercession,PROPN,NNP,intercession.n.01,intercession.n.01,religion,prayer.n.02,hyponyms,a prayer to God on behalf of another person,,['intercession'],"It will be April in New York , flowers will bloom like tiny girl college students in the forgotten cemeteries of Trinity Church and the Church of the Intercession ."
3070,rhythm,rhythm,NOUN,NN,rhythm.n.01,rhythm.n.01,music,music.n.01,hyponyms,the basic rhythmic unit in a piece of music,the piece has a fast rhythm. the conductor set the beat,"['rhythm', 'beat', 'musical_rhythm']","I will sit at a desk in my skyscraper office , I will work to the rhythm of the Easter - Parade resurrected city ."
3082,kicked,kick,VERB,VBD,kick.v.02,kick.v.02,violence,kick.v.02,original,thrash about or strike out with the feet,,['kick'],She kicked her blanket away ! ”
3085,MUSLIMS,MUSLIMS,PROPN,NNP,muslim.n.01,muslim.n.01,religion,islam.n.01,member_meronyms,a believer in or follower of Islam,,"['Muslim', 'Moslem']","And also I read , but suddenly how bored I have become : FLOYD WOULD FIGHT ‘ CASSIUS x ’ FOR NOTHING — IN ORDER TO WREST TITLE FROM BLACK MUSLIMS . . ."
3086,Saracen,Saracen,PROPN,NNP,saracen.n.03,saracen.n.03,religion,islam.n.01,hyponyms,(historically) a Muslim who opposed the Crusades,,['Saracen'],"Says Floyd Patterson , former heavyweight champion of the world , who lost the title to Sonny Liston in a previous chapter of this narration : if only the Sicilian - Americans would make up their minds whether they are in love with the Teuton Templars or the Mustached Saracen Pirates ; says Floyd Patterson , according to the fighting press : “ I disagree with the precepts of the Black Muslims , just as I disagree with the Ku Klux Klan — in fact so much so , I am willing and desire to fight Cassius X to take the title from the Black Muslim leadership and will do so for no purse whatsoever , whenever and wherever they might desire . ."
3086,Muslims,Muslims,PROPN,NNPS,muslim.n.01,muslim.n.01,religion,islam.n.01,member_meronyms,a believer in or follower of Islam,,"['Muslim', 'Moslem']","Says Floyd Patterson , former heavyweight champion of the world , who lost the title to Sonny Liston in a previous chapter of this narration : if only the Sicilian - Americans would make up their minds whether they are in love with the Teuton Templars or the Mustached Saracen Pirates ; says Floyd Patterson , according to the fighting press : “ I disagree with the precepts of the Black Muslims , just as I disagree with the Ku Klux Klan — in fact so much so , I am willing and desire to fight Cassius X to take the title from the Black Muslim leadership and will do so for no purse whatsoever , whenever and wherever they might desire . ."
3086,Muslim,muslim,ADJ,JJ,muslim.a.01,muslim.a.01,religion,muslim.a.01,original,of or relating to or supporting Islamism,Islamic art,"['Muslim', 'Moslem', 'Islamic']","Says Floyd Patterson , former heavyweight champion of the world , who lost the title to Sonny Liston in a previous chapter of this narration : if only the Sicilian - Americans would make up their minds whether they are in love with the Teuton Templars or the Mustached Saracen Pirates ; says Floyd Patterson , according to the fighting press : “ I disagree with the precepts of the Black Muslims , just as I disagree with the Ku Klux Klan — in fact so much so , I am willing and desire to fight Cassius X to take the title from the Black Muslim leadership and will do so for no purse whatsoever , whenever and wherever they might desire . ."
3091,hate,hate,VERB,VBP,hate.v.01,hate.v.01,violence,hate.v.01,original,dislike intensely; feel antipathy or aversion towards,I hate Mexican food. She detests politicians,"['hate', 'detest']","I hate you , I hate writers , worse of all I hate Negro writers , you and Jimmy Baldwin included ! ”"
3091,hate,hate,VERB,VBP,hate.v.01,hate.v.01,violence,hate.v.01,original,dislike intensely; feel antipathy or aversion towards,I hate Mexican food. She detests politicians,"['hate', 'detest']","I hate you , I hate writers , worse of all I hate Negro writers , you and Jimmy Baldwin included ! ”"
3091,hate,hate,VERB,VBP,hate.v.01,hate.v.01,violence,hate.v.01,original,dislike intensely; feel antipathy or aversion towards,I hate Mexican food. She detests politicians,"['hate', 'detest']","I hate you , I hate writers , worse of all I hate Negro writers , you and Jimmy Baldwin included ! ”"
3103,Christian,Christian,PROPN,NNP,christian.n.01,christian.n.01,religion,religion.n.02,member_meronyms,a religious person who believes Jesus is the Christ and who is a member of a Christian denomination,,['Christian'],"“ I told you Patterson would try to make a comeback on the good Christian , against the bad Muslim bit ! ”"
3103,Muslim,muslim,ADJ,JJ,muslim.a.01,muslim.a.01,religion,muslim.a.01,original,of or relating to or supporting Islamism,Islamic art,"['Muslim', 'Moslem', 'Islamic']","“ I told you Patterson would try to make a comeback on the good Christian , against the bad Muslim bit ! ”"
3107,Religion,Religion,PROPN,NNP,religion.n.01,religion.n.01,religion,religion.n.01,original,a strong belief in a supernatural power or powers that control human destiny,he lost his faith but not his morality,"['religion', 'faith', 'religious_belief']","“ Apparently Religion , if I understand you correctly , has also become Big Business . .. ”"
3108,Religion,religion,NOUN,NN,religion.n.01,religion.n.01,religion,religion.n.01,original,a strong belief in a supernatural power or powers that control human destiny,he lost his faith but not his morality,"['religion', 'faith', 'religious_belief']","“ Religion has always been Big Business , the biggest Big Business — otherwise so many excellent criminal minds would not be attracted to the field ."
3110,religion,religion,NOUN,NN,religion.n.01,religion.n.01,religion,religion.n.01,original,a strong belief in a supernatural power or powers that control human destiny,he lost his faith but not his morality,"['religion', 'faith', 'religious_belief']","No longer being able to pit the White Man against the Black Man , we must stage our colossal spectacles in a strange exciting new light — religion against religion !"
3110,religion,religion,NOUN,NN,religion.n.01,religion.n.01,religion,religion.n.01,original,a strong belief in a supernatural power or powers that control human destiny,he lost his faith but not his morality,"['religion', 'faith', 'religious_belief']","No longer being able to pit the White Man against the Black Man , we must stage our colossal spectacles in a strange exciting new light — religion against religion !"
3111,God,God,PROPN,NNP,deity.n.01,deity.n.01,religion,deity.n.01,original,any supernatural being worshipped as controlling some part of the world or some aspect of life or who is the personification of a force,,"['deity', 'divinity', 'god', 'immortal']","My God , what possibilities for the British and Sicilian promoters !"
3114,Christian,Christian,PROPN,NNP,christian.n.01,christian.n.01,religion,religion.n.02,member_meronyms,a religious person who believes Jesus is the Christ and who is a member of a Christian denomination,,['Christian'],"The winner of the Fight of Fights , Christian against Muslim , will take on the Champion of Buddhism !"
3114,Muslim,Muslim,PROPN,NNP,muslim.n.01,muslim.n.01,religion,islam.n.01,member_meronyms,a believer in or follower of Islam,,"['Muslim', 'Moslem']","The winner of the Fight of Fights , Christian against Muslim , will take on the Champion of Buddhism !"
3114,Buddhism,Buddhism,PROPN,NNP,buddhism.n.01,buddhism.n.01,religion,religion.n.02,hyponyms,a religion represented by the many groups (especially in Asia) that profess various forms of the Buddhist doctrine and that venerate Buddha,,['Buddhism'],"The winner of the Fight of Fights , Christian against Muslim , will take on the Champion of Buddhism !"
3116,religion,religion,NOUN,NN,religion.n.01,religion.n.01,religion,religion.n.01,original,a strong belief in a supernatural power or powers that control human destiny,he lost his faith but not his morality,"['religion', 'faith', 'religious_belief']",What religion will in the end prevail ? ”
3117,religion,religion,NOUN,NN,religion.n.01,religion.n.01,religion,religion.n.01,original,a strong belief in a supernatural power or powers that control human destiny,he lost his faith but not his morality,"['religion', 'faith', 'religious_belief']","“ The religion of Death — ” “ Oh , you are in a bad mood today , my dear Count ."
3127,quote,quote,NOUN,NN,quotation.n.02,quotation.n.02,music,music.n.01,hyponyms,a passage or expression that is quoted or cited,,"['quotation', 'quote', 'citation']","“ Somewhere in that strange literary review you showed me the other day , there was a quote from William of Orange : ‘ ll ri’y a pas besoin d'esperer pour entre - prendre , ni de reussir pour perseverer .."
3128,religion,religion,NOUN,NN,religion.n.01,religion.n.01,religion,religion.n.01,original,a strong belief in a supernatural power or powers that control human destiny,he lost his faith but not his morality,"['religion', 'faith', 'religious_belief']","“ Am I correct in assuming that what you were trying to say , before you brought my remote ancestor , William of Orange , spouting inanities in French , into the question , that religion is the biggest of Big Business , because we are fallen angels , because the road back to Paradise is long and arduous , the tariff , by plane , camel , broom or donkey , is high — even though we of the aircraft business shall on April first radically reduce our rates — because the speculators along the long and arduous route back to our lost Paradise are legion , the cost of a lemonade or a watered - down beer extremely high ? ”"
3129,Theology,Theology,PROPN,NNP,theology.n.01,theology.n.01,religion,theology.n.01,original,the rational and systematic study of religion and its influences and of the nature of religious truth,,"['theology', 'divinity']","“ Theology , my dear Count !"
3130,Theology,Theology,PROPN,NNP,theology.n.01,theology.n.01,religion,theology.n.01,original,the rational and systematic study of religion and its influences and of the nature of religious truth,,"['theology', 'divinity']","They are wise indeed to send you to Hong Kong , where there is no Theology , only Business . . ."
3132,religion,religion,NOUN,NN,religion.n.01,religion.n.01,religion,religion.n.01,original,a strong belief in a supernatural power or powers that control human destiny,he lost his faith but not his morality,"['religion', 'faith', 'religious_belief']",Now what religion would you say a piece of sculpture like that represents ? ”
3134,vein,vein,NOUN,NN,vein.n.02,vein.n.02,music,music.n.01,hyponyms,a distinctive style or manner,he continued in this vein for several minutes,['vein'],"“ You are in an inquisitional vein today , Higgins . . ."
3150,beheaded,behead,VERB,VBN,decapitate.v.01,decapitate.v.01,violence,kill.v.01,hyponyms,cut the head of,the French King was beheaded during the Revolution,"['decapitate', 'behead', 'decollate']","I am standing on a platform of crude wood beams , to be sold as a slave , or to be beheaded , I do not know , Doris commands , Doris will tell . .. )"
3152,attend,attend,VERB,VB,attend.v.01,attend.v.01,religion,church_service.n.01,in_topic_domains,"be present at (meetings, church services, university), etc.",She attends class regularly. I rarely attend services at my church. did you go to the meeting?,"['attend', 'go_to']","( Today is Thursday , March 12 , 1964 , former President Truman has a sly horse - trader ’s smile on his lips , “ Lady Bird ” Johnson smiles with quiet Washington hostess dignity , the caption under the Paris Herald Tribune photograph reads : “ Former President Harry Truman and Mrs. Lyndon B. Johnson review an honor guard on their arrival in Athens to attend King Paul ’s funeral . . . ” )"
3162,violence,violence,NOUN,NN,violence.n.03,violence.n.03,violence,violence.n.03,original,a turbulent state resulting in injuries and destruction etc.,,['violence'],"Whatever has happened in the atmosphere above or in the hearts of men below has happened , some useless violence has been spent , Rome is quiet today and calm ."
3172,violence,violence,NOUN,NN,violence.n.03,violence.n.03,violence,violence.n.03,original,a turbulent state resulting in injuries and destruction etc.,,['violence'],With the thick wooden spoon she stirs the pasta in the gurgling boiling water with a steady rhythm of controlled violence .
3175,Christian,christian,ADJ,JJ,christian.a.01,christian.a.01,religion,religion.n.01,in_topic_domains,relating to or characteristic of Christianity,Christian rites,['Christian'],"He reads well , he has been educated very recently in an experimental adult education literacy project , his voice is vibrant , the words separate one from the other , creating a strange theatrical effect in the steamy high - ceilinged kitchen of that restaurant on the Via Appia Antica , across from the San Calisto Catacombs , as if some pre - Christian catechism were taking place ."
3179,Jewish,jewish,ADJ,JJ,jewish.a.01,jewish.a.01,religion,jewish.a.01,original,of or relating to Jews or their culture or religion,He is Jewish. a Jewish wedding,"['Jewish', 'Judaic']","“ Better if we got the money from Germany or France , American money is Jewish money , nothing but paper . . . ”"
3186,kill,kill,VERB,VB,kill.v.01,kill.v.01,violence,kill.v.01,original,"cause to die; put to death, usually intentionally or knowingly",This man killed several people when he tried to rob a bank. The farmer killed a pig for the holidays,['kill'],You saw him kill that Oswald yourself on TV ! ”
3191,Lord,Lord,PROPN,NNP,godhead.n.01,godhead.n.01,religion,godhead.n.01,original,terms referring to the Judeo-Christian God,,"['Godhead', 'Lord', 'Creator', 'Maker', 'Divine', 'God_Almighty', 'Almighty', 'Jehovah']",You think everyone is sneaky and sly like the Lord made you women — ” “ Ha !
3193,atheist,atheist,NOUN,NN,atheist.n.01,atheist.n.01,religion,atheist.n.01,original,someone who does not believe in the existence of a god,,['atheist'],"Now just listen to this Communist pig , this big fat atheist , talking about the Lord !"
3193,Lord,Lord,PROPN,NNP,godhead.n.01,godhead.n.01,religion,godhead.n.01,original,terms referring to the Judeo-Christian God,,"['Godhead', 'Lord', 'Creator', 'Maker', 'Divine', 'God_Almighty', 'Almighty', 'Jehovah']","Now just listen to this Communist pig , this big fat atheist , talking about the Lord !"
3201,executed,execute,VERB,VBN,execute.v.01,execute.v.01,violence,kill.v.01,hyponyms,kill as a means of socially sanctioned punishment,"In some states, criminals are executed","['execute', 'put_to_death']","Capital punishment to be executed on the electric chair : this is the sentence inflicted on Jack Ruby , judged guilty of premeditated homicide by the twelve members of the jury of Dallas .. ”"
3201,homicide,homicide,NOUN,NN,homicide.n.01,homicide.n.01,violence,killing.n.02,hyponyms,the killing of a human being by another human being,,['homicide'],"Capital punishment to be executed on the electric chair : this is the sentence inflicted on Jack Ruby , judged guilty of premeditated homicide by the twelve members of the jury of Dallas .. ”"
3202,Kill,kill,VERB,VB,kill.v.01,kill.v.01,violence,kill.v.01,original,"cause to die; put to death, usually intentionally or knowingly",This man killed several people when he tried to rob a bank. The farmer killed a pig for the holidays,['kill'],"“ Kill them all , that ’s what I say !"
3213,violence,violence,NOUN,NN,violence.n.03,violence.n.03,violence,violence.n.03,original,a turbulent state resulting in injuries and destruction etc.,,['violence'],"Citizens of Dallas , deeply disturbed by a cycle of historic violence in their city , disagreed today over Jack Ruby ’s condemnation to death ."
3224,Allah,Allah,PROPN,NNP,allah.n.01,allah.n.01,religion,allah.n.01,original,Muslim name for the one and only God,,['Allah'],Malcolm X last week emerged as an independent operator in the service of Allah and black nationalism in the United States .
3225,Muslim,Muslim,PROPN,NNP,muslim.n.01,muslim.n.01,religion,islam.n.01,member_meronyms,a believer in or follower of Islam,,"['Muslim', 'Moslem']","Ousted as number two man in the Black Muslim movement , he struck a fresh pose of militancy , urging Negroes to buy guns and form rifle clubs for self - defense . . . ” ."
3225,rifle,rifle,NOUN,NN,rifle.n.01,rifle.n.01,violence,weapon.n.01,hyponyms,a shoulder firearm with a long barrel and a rifled bore,he lifted the rifle to his shoulder and fired,['rifle'],"Ousted as number two man in the Black Muslim movement , he struck a fresh pose of militancy , urging Negroes to buy guns and form rifle clubs for self - defense . . . ” ."
3240,goddess,goddess,NOUN,NN,goddess.n.01,goddess.n.01,religion,deity.n.01,hyponyms,a female deity,,['goddess'],"He spoons up the pool of melted butter at the bottom of the bowl and pours it on the mound of pasta , which looks like the shorn hair of a marble goddess ."
3246,goddess,goddess,NOUN,NN,goddess.n.01,goddess.n.01,religion,deity.n.01,hyponyms,a female deity,,['goddess'],She sprinkles the fine - grained cheese over her mountain of steaming shorn hair of a marble goddess .
3261,music,music,NOUN,NN,music.n.01,music.n.01,music,music.n.01,original,an artistic form of auditory communication incorporating instrumental or vocal tones in a structured and continuous manner,,['music'],"From the kitchen , as the silence grows noisy because of their chewing , comes radio music ; far too many violins .. ."
3261,violins,violin,NOUN,NNS,violin.n.01,violin.n.01,music,musical_instrument.n.01,hyponyms,bowed stringed instrument that is the highest member of the violin family; this instrument has four strings and a hollow body and an unfretted fingerboard and is played with a bow,,"['violin', 'fiddle']","From the kitchen , as the silence grows noisy because of their chewing , comes radio music ; far too many violins .. ."
3299,shotguns,shotgun,NOUN,NNS,shotgun.n.01,shotgun.n.01,violence,weapon.n.01,hyponyms,firearm that is a double-barreled smoothbore shoulder weapon for firing shot at short ranges,,"['shotgun', 'scattergun']","“ The hunters with shotguns , and muddy boots ..."
3308,God,God,PROPN,NNP,god.n.01,god.n.01,religion,god.n.01,original,the supernatural being conceived as the perfect and omnipotent and omniscient originator and ruler of the universe; the object of worship in monotheistic religions,,"['God', 'Supreme_Being']","“ I do n’t think you ’ve ever talked to me about your mother — ” “ I have a mother , you have a mother , all God ’s children got mommies . . . ! ”"
3319,God,God,PROPN,NNP,god.n.01,god.n.01,religion,god.n.01,original,the supernatural being conceived as the perfect and omnipotent and omniscient originator and ruler of the universe; the object of worship in monotheistic religions,,"['God', 'Supreme_Being']","Her voice fades and retires to a musical cave from which , only when the stars are in the correct position , comes the voice of the oracle : “ I have a mother , you have a mother , all God ’s children got mammies . . . ”"
3320,prayer,prayer,NOUN,NN,prayer.n.01,prayer.n.01,religion,prayer.n.01,original,the act of communicating with a deity (especially as a petition or in adoration or contrition or thanksgiving),the priest sank to his knees in prayer,"['prayer', 'supplication']",( And the warm hum of my IBM Executive electric typewriter abruptly makes a pocket of silence as in an inaudible prayer I add : .
3321,God,God,PROPN,NNP,god.n.01,god.n.01,religion,god.n.01,original,the supernatural being conceived as the perfect and omnipotent and omniscient originator and ruler of the universe; the object of worship in monotheistic religions,,"['God', 'Supreme_Being']",for otherwise there is no God ! ” )
3322,Divine,Divine,PROPN,NNP,godhead.n.01,godhead.n.01,religion,godhead.n.01,original,terms referring to the Judeo-Christian God,,"['Godhead', 'Lord', 'Creator', 'Maker', 'Divine', 'God_Almighty', 'Almighty', 'Jehovah']","But now the long - awaited astral conjunction begins to take place , light years become hours , become days , as - trologists , astronomers and human racers take pause , struggle to perceive , impatiently search the skies as the vertical and horizontal hairlines of the Divine Ballisti - cian ’s gunsight slowly begin to cross , become the Cross , Easter Morning ’s organist sits in Saturn ’s dying gloom and smiles with the secret bubbling joy of anticipation while practicing a Hallelujah Chorus . . ."
3322,organist,organist,NOUN,NN,organist.n.01,organist.n.01,music,musician.n.01,hyponyms,a person who plays an organ,,['organist'],"But now the long - awaited astral conjunction begins to take place , light years become hours , become days , as - trologists , astronomers and human racers take pause , struggle to perceive , impatiently search the skies as the vertical and horizontal hairlines of the Divine Ballisti - cian ’s gunsight slowly begin to cross , become the Cross , Easter Morning ’s organist sits in Saturn ’s dying gloom and smiles with the secret bubbling joy of anticipation while practicing a Hallelujah Chorus . . ."
3322,Hallelujah,Hallelujah,PROPN,NNP,hallelujah.n.01,hallelujah.n.01,religion,worship.n.01,hyponyms,a shout or song of praise to God,,['hallelujah'],"But now the long - awaited astral conjunction begins to take place , light years become hours , become days , as - trologists , astronomers and human racers take pause , struggle to perceive , impatiently search the skies as the vertical and horizontal hairlines of the Divine Ballisti - cian ’s gunsight slowly begin to cross , become the Cross , Easter Morning ’s organist sits in Saturn ’s dying gloom and smiles with the secret bubbling joy of anticipation while practicing a Hallelujah Chorus . . ."
3323,place,place,NOUN,NN,place.n.12,place.n.12,music,music.n.01,hyponyms,the passage that is being read,he lost his place on the page,['place'],"The blackbandaged beggar woman glances down at her outstretched arthritic hand , reads the tiny crisscrossing lines of humility and greed , the itching tapestry writ on each human child ’s palm , the palms of monkeys too , she sighs , she coughs , in a scratchy voice the old beggar woman says : “ What has happened has happened , what shall take place shall take place , stay afloat , stay afloat , praise be to the Lord of Heaven , the catastrophic reign of Saturn is drawing to an end . ."
3323,place,place,NOUN,NN,place.n.12,place.n.12,music,music.n.01,hyponyms,the passage that is being read,he lost his place on the page,['place'],"The blackbandaged beggar woman glances down at her outstretched arthritic hand , reads the tiny crisscrossing lines of humility and greed , the itching tapestry writ on each human child ’s palm , the palms of monkeys too , she sighs , she coughs , in a scratchy voice the old beggar woman says : “ What has happened has happened , what shall take place shall take place , stay afloat , stay afloat , praise be to the Lord of Heaven , the catastrophic reign of Saturn is drawing to an end . ."
3323,Lord,Lord,PROPN,NNP,godhead.n.01,godhead.n.01,religion,godhead.n.01,original,terms referring to the Judeo-Christian God,,"['Godhead', 'Lord', 'Creator', 'Maker', 'Divine', 'God_Almighty', 'Almighty', 'Jehovah']","The blackbandaged beggar woman glances down at her outstretched arthritic hand , reads the tiny crisscrossing lines of humility and greed , the itching tapestry writ on each human child ’s palm , the palms of monkeys too , she sighs , she coughs , in a scratchy voice the old beggar woman says : “ What has happened has happened , what shall take place shall take place , stay afloat , stay afloat , praise be to the Lord of Heaven , the catastrophic reign of Saturn is drawing to an end . ."
3324,Underworld,Underworld,PROPN,NNP,hell.n.04,hell.n.04,religion,religion.n.01,in_topic_domains,(religion) the world of the dead;  - Theognis,No one goes to Hades with all his immense wealth,"['Hell', 'Hades', 'infernal_region', 'netherworld', 'Scheol', 'underworld']","The beggar woman crouches next to a marble horsetrough fountain in Piazza del Popolo , Doris and the Count are crossing the gray polished stones of the ancient Appian Way , they follow behind the gooselike procession of Germanic tourists , headed for the rectangular tufa mouth of the Catacombs , admission fee paid , English - speaking guide assigned , tapers in hand , Doris and the Count are about to go underground , cold deep and narrow the irregular uncomfortable steps that lead to the sacred Underworld of Rome . . ."
3333,Saints,Saints,PROPN,NNPS,saint.n.01,saint.n.01,religion,deity.n.01,hyponyms,a person who has died and has been declared a saint by canonization,,['saint'],"Suddenly now daylight is swallowed up by the phosphorescent glow of darkness , by the powdered bones of all the Saints ."
3343,organist,organist,NOUN,NN,organist.n.01,organist.n.01,music,musician.n.01,hyponyms,a person who plays an organ,,['organist'],( Easter Morning ’s organist mops his perspiring brow with a tightly woven handkerchief of precious linen and reluctantly heads for home and the ritual bowl of quarreling minestrone . . . )
3345,underworld,underworld,NOUN,NN,hell.n.04,hell.n.04,religion,religion.n.01,in_topic_domains,(religion) the world of the dead;  - Theognis,No one goes to Hades with all his immense wealth,"['Hell', 'Hades', 'infernal_region', 'netherworld', 'Scheol', 'underworld']","The cheerful young Irish priest , their Orphic guide to this underworld , other world , place , holds up his hand unnecessarily for silence , clears his throat like an amateur tenor in a Dublin bar , and in melodious tones , the melodious tones of the practiced performer , not the tones of the practiced reformer , says : “ • . ."
3345,tones,tone,NOUN,NNS,tone.n.01,tone.n.01,music,music.n.01,hyponyms,the quality of a person's voice,he began in a conversational tone. he spoke in a nervous tone of voice,"['tone', 'tone_of_voice']","The cheerful young Irish priest , their Orphic guide to this underworld , other world , place , holds up his hand unnecessarily for silence , clears his throat like an amateur tenor in a Dublin bar , and in melodious tones , the melodious tones of the practiced performer , not the tones of the practiced reformer , says : “ • . ."
3345,tones,tone,NOUN,NNS,tone.n.01,tone.n.01,music,music.n.01,hyponyms,the quality of a person's voice,he began in a conversational tone. he spoke in a nervous tone of voice,"['tone', 'tone_of_voice']","The cheerful young Irish priest , their Orphic guide to this underworld , other world , place , holds up his hand unnecessarily for silence , clears his throat like an amateur tenor in a Dublin bar , and in melodious tones , the melodious tones of the practiced performer , not the tones of the practiced reformer , says : “ • . ."
3345,tones,tone,NOUN,NNS,tone.n.01,tone.n.01,music,music.n.01,hyponyms,the quality of a person's voice,he began in a conversational tone. he spoke in a nervous tone of voice,"['tone', 'tone_of_voice']","The cheerful young Irish priest , their Orphic guide to this underworld , other world , place , holds up his hand unnecessarily for silence , clears his throat like an amateur tenor in a Dublin bar , and in melodious tones , the melodious tones of the practiced performer , not the tones of the practiced reformer , says : “ • . ."
3346,Christians,Christians,PROPN,NNPS,christian.n.01,christian.n.01,religion,religion.n.02,member_meronyms,a religious person who believes Jesus is the Christ and who is a member of a Christian denomination,,['Christian'],"among the pagan Romans , cremation was the usual method of disposing of the dead , but the early Christians practised inhumation , since this was the custom of the Jews and Jesus himself had been buried in a grave ."
3347,Christian,christian,ADJ,JJ,christian.a.01,christian.a.01,religion,religion.n.01,in_topic_domains,relating to or characteristic of Christianity,Christian rites,['Christian'],"The Catacombs of Rome are of Christian construction , and were designed from the first as places of sepulture of those who had ‘ died in the Lord ’ and in death were not divided from their fellow - believers ..."
3347,died,die,VERB,VBN,die.v.11,die.v.11,religion,religion.n.01,in_topic_domains,suffer spiritual death; be damned (in the religious sense),Whosoever..believes in me shall never die,['die'],"The Catacombs of Rome are of Christian construction , and were designed from the first as places of sepulture of those who had ‘ died in the Lord ’ and in death were not divided from their fellow - believers ..."
3347,Lord,Lord,PROPN,NNP,godhead.n.01,godhead.n.01,religion,godhead.n.01,original,terms referring to the Judeo-Christian God,,"['Godhead', 'Lord', 'Creator', 'Maker', 'Divine', 'God_Almighty', 'Almighty', 'Jehovah']","The Catacombs of Rome are of Christian construction , and were designed from the first as places of sepulture of those who had ‘ died in the Lord ’ and in death were not divided from their fellow - believers ..."
